First, then, the lyrics, as sung by Jerry Garcia on 
the album Workingman’s Dead: 
Please don’t dominate the rap, Jack, 
If you got nothin’ to say. 
/f you please, don’t back up the track; 
This train’s got to run today. 
/ spent a little time on the mountain, 
Spent a little time on the hill. 
Like some say, better run away; 
Others say better stand still. 
Now | don’t know, but | been told, 
It’s hard to run with the weight of gold. 
Other hand, I’ve heard it said, 
It’s just as hard with the weight of lead. 
Who can deny, who can deny 
It’s not just a change in style. 
One step’s done, and another begun, 
And |! wonder how many miles. 
! spent a little time on the mountain, 
Spent a little time on the hill. 
Things went down we don’t understand, 
But | think in time we will. 
Now | don’t know, but | was told, 
In the heat of the sun, a man died of cold. 
Keep on comin’ or stand and wait, 
With the sun so dark and the hour so Iate. . 
. 
You can’t overlook the lack, Jack, 
Of any other highway to ride. 
It’s got no signs or dividin’ lines, 
And very few rules to guide. 
/ spent a little time on the mountain, 
Spent a little time on the hill. 
! saw things gettin’ out of hand; 
! guess they always will. 
Now | don’t know, but | been told, 
If the horse don’t pull, you got to carry the load. 
| don’t know whose back’s that strong; 
Maybe find out before too long. 
‘One way 
or another, 
One way or another, 
One way or another, 
This darkness got to give. 
The song is, on the one hand, an expression of appre- 
hensiveness and confusion and, on the other, an exhor- 
tation to a new order of wisdom, a higher and truer vision. 
However, unlike the authors of most of the journalistic 
post-mortems on the Altamont debacle (especially those 
hand-wringers and breast-beaters who insist on ‘’dominating 
the rap’ even though they “got nothin’ new to say”), 
32 
suasion, | and he does. ne 
run today.” 
ai 
The song's thrice-repeated refrain, “' pets 
a 
litt 
time on the mountain, /Spent a little time on the hill 
bespeaks the poet’s (or, if you will, the singer’s) mode 
claim 
to having made a private, careful consideration 
hors de combat, of the Superior Man’s obligations in 
time of public turmoil*; in fact, ‘we must seek guidan 
within 
ourselves, 
since 
public advice--Like 
some say, 
better run away, /Others say better stand still’’--is like y 
to be hysterical, and paralyzingly contradictory. 
And 
in the next quatrain that contradiction blooms into a full: 
blown paradox: 
Now I don’t know, but | been told, 
It’s hard to run with the weight of gold. 
Other hand, I’ve heard it said, 
It’s just as hard with the weight of lead. 
Metaphorically, these 
lines describe and define the ‘two 
equally seductive+-and equally treacherous--temptations that 
t 
beguile the truth- seeker, the Scylla and Charybdis between ) 
which he must thread his perilous course: 
on the one 
hand, Fortune, represented 
at Altamont in the opulent 
persons of the Stones, seen here as listing dangeriously 
beneath “the weight of gold”; and on the other, Violence, 
the way of the Angels, burdened as they are with chai 
and helmets and Iron Crosses and all their weaponry, t 
hardware of their sullen 
calling. 
Then too, of course, | 
there is the more literal reading of, the passage, in which the 
relative subtlety of the metaphor 
is overridden by the 
ominous, code-of-the-Old-West 
caveat to the effect that 
he who is so foolish as to make off with his brothers’ 
gold may end up carrying their hot lead as well, cut down 
by the heavy-handed irony of a Fate which any admirer of 
The Treasure of Sierra Madre could have warned him of 
right from the start. 
Nor may we shrug off the events at Altamont : 
as 
harbingers of a mere ‘change in style;” rather, the minstrel 
contends, the change 
is substantive; and the death of | 
Meredith Hunter signals that, when the pilgrimage arrive d 
at. Altamont 
it entered 
new and hostile terEOvan e 
*A very literal interpretation of the refrain might 
t 
also make reference to the fact that the Dead, scheduled | 
to go on after the Stones, never actually played that day; 
thus they had ample opportunity to climb “the hill* 
overlooking the scene and see for themselves that things 
5 
were indeed ‘‘gettin’ out of hand.” 
