leged smuggling while he commanded Vietnamese pilots in Opera- 
tion Haylift in 1963-64," 
Daily World, March 3, 1970, NY, p. 1: "Narcotics and gold” is the US 
@take in Laos, declared Gary Busch, International affairs repre- 
sentative of the United Auto Workers. 
. 
. 
. He said U.S. ele- 
ments in Laos regularly "pay off" their debts in narcotics, 'the 
most viable currency in Southeast Asia.'" 
"Air America: 
Flying the U.S. into Laos," by Peter Dale Scott, Ramparts, 
p. 39, February, 1970, S.F.: 
". . 
. in Viet-Nam and even more 
in Laos, it is the chief airline serving the CIA in its clandestine 
war activities, 
. 
. 
. Air America's planes also serve to transport 
the Meos' main cash crop, opium." (See also the role of Air 
America co-founder, Madame Anna Chennault, "with the China 
Lobby and the CIA's complex of private corporations, "’) 
Christian Science Monitor, May 29, 1970, section of series by John Hughes, 
p. 9: "In Laos, some of the main growers of illegal opium are 
tough mountain tritesmen upon whom the American Central Intelli- 
gence Agency (CIA) relies heavily. 
. 
. 
. Clearly, the CIA is cog- 
nizant of, if not party to, the extensive movement of opium out of 
Laos, 
One charter pilot told me that ‘friendly’ opium shipments 
get special CIA clearance and monitoring on their flights south- 
ward out of the country. 
. 
. 
. two or three flights without this 
‘protection’ crashed under mysterious circumstances. ..." 
Letter, P. D. Scott to A. Ginsberg, June 17, 1970: refers to ''the im- 
portant Corsican element in the Saigon prefecture of Police, al- 
legedly involved at the receiving end of the ‘Air Opium' line from 
Vientiane." 
Speech, March 24, 1970 by Rep. (later Sen, ) 
John V. Tunney, D.-Calif. 
to Wilshire Chamber of Commerce, L.A., Calif.; text available 
Tunney office, also quoted in The New Yorker, Talk of the Town, 
April 11, 1970: "Weare... engaged in a secret war in Laos, 
a tribal war in which the CIA has committed the United States to 
support a faction of Meo tribesmen led by General Vang Pao whose 
sole function is to dominate other factions of this opium producing 
Meo tribe throughout northern Laos. 
. 
. 
. The Administration has 
deliberately veiled in secrecy our deepening involvement in an 
opium tribal war. 
. 
. 
. clandestine yet official operations of the 
United States Government could be aiding and abetting heroin 
traffic here at home." 
The New Yorker attributes information to Prof. John T. 
McAlister, Jr., Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International 
Affairs, Princeton, N.J. 
: 
Vietnam: 
The Origins of Revolution, by John T. McAlister, Jr., Alfred A. 
Knopf, N.Y. 
1969, p. 
228 gives older background: 
"N.oreover the 
Chinese 93rd Independent Division took up positions in the highlands 
of Laos. 
. 
. so that it might control the opium poppy harvest. The 
division refused to leave Indochina until September, 1946, a year 
after its arrival, when a second crop became available." 
The New York Times gives additional background information: 
"Opium Is Called A Factor in Laos," June 16, 1970, Vientiane, 
Laos (UPI). 
‘y.eo General Leads Tribesmen in War with Communists in 
Laos," by Henry Kanm, Oct. 27, 1969. 
h 
“Subversion by CIA, " editorial, June 10, 1970. 
"Big Crime Rise Is Worrying Hong Kong," July 14, 1970. 
"Asia Leads Opium Output, '' August 3, 1970, "Kuala Lumpur, 
).alaysia (AP)--Southeast Asia accounts for 1, 000 tons--83 
per cent--of the world’s illegal production of opium, an 
Iranian Government official told a United Nations seminar 
on narcotics control. 
Turkey is the second major producing 
area, he said." 
“The Vietnamization of Laos," Banning Garrett, hamparts, June 1970, 
pp. 44-45: 
"This trade is international, supposedly involving 
the Burmese, the Chinese, and the Kuomintang from Taiwan, 
as well as the Laotians. 
Opium politics are probably the only 
relatively autonomous sphere of action for the Laotian elite, 
and probably the major preoccupation for most of them. "' 
Dr. Joel Fort, The Pleasure Seekers, Grove Press B257, NY, 1970, 
pp. 60-63: 
"The world's biggest illegal opium-producing area 
centers in Northern Thailand and also includes portions of 
Burma, Laos, and the People's Republic of China. 
. 
. 
. Several 
United Nations--and World Health Organization-sponsored studies, 
including my own investigation for these bodies, have shown that 
hundreds of tons of opium are being produced each year in the 
tens of thousands of acres under cultivation in Thailand by hill 
tribes, including the Meo, the Yao, and others... 
. 
", , 
. for distribution to the rest of Asia and to the United 
States. 
. 
. 
. Along the more dangerous part of this journey, 
the opium products are guarded by Chinese Nationalist troops 
who settled in the area following Chiang Kai Shek's expulsion 
from the mainland and who have subsequently maintained them- 
selves with illicit narcotics profits and, according to some re- 
ports, with additional subsidies from the American Central In- 
telligence Agency as a ‘bulwark against Communism !' 
", , 
. The layer upon layer of intrigue, duplicity and corrup- 
tion which profitably maintain this opium traffic is rarely sur- 
passed in modern spy novels. 
In effect, the United States is 
covering up and sometimes subsidizing the opium traffic which 
it purports to be eradicating." 
“Opium, 
by Stanley Karnow, Saturday Evening Post, February 22, 1964, 
pp. 80-82: "Opium buyers... 
. Many, tho dressed in murti, 
are Chinese Nationalist officers who command about 5, 000 ir- 
regulars, remnants of tie 93rd Division who retreated into this 
x 
1 
Mae 
sea 
ie 
PO 
Nh 
region when Communists took China and have earned their liveli- 
| 
hood by smuggling ever since," /Considerable more detail on 
: 
routes, methods, & U.S. destination of much Nationalist Chinese- — 
smuggled opium, & on corruption in Indochinese governments. / - 
Laos, War and Revolution, 
Eds. Nina Adams & Alfred McCoy, Harper & 
now, N.Y. 1970 TON 221 Paper7. 
See survey article by D. 
7 
Feingold for background survey of narcotics traffic (includes 
; 
Qmb. 
3unker-Gen. 
Westmoreland 
Air 
Force Major pilot 
busted 
for 
smuggling.) 
” 
Koen, Ross Y, The China Lobby in American Politics, MacMillan Co., 
; 
N.Y. 1960-61; 8, 000 copies burned, according to conversation 
with Author, November 10, 1970 because of statement in preface 
asserting existence of "substantial evidence that high officials in 
Nationalist Chinese Government engaged in opium traffic in late 
- 
'40s and early '50s."" See biography, China Lobby 
Man: Alfred 
Kohlberg by Joseph Keeley for statement by Drug Czar Anslinger 
contesting Koen's assertion. 
November 30, 1970, pp. 31-32: 
“. . 
. Mrs. Chennault, the petite 
Chinese-born widow of General Claire Chennault of the World War 
Il Flying Tigers, was a major money-raiser for Nixon's 1968 
campaign. 
. 
. her connections are said to be excellent-~- 
particularly in Saigon. 
. 
. 
. 'the Dragon Lady of Watergate East’ 
is very much en rapport with such men of power as Attorney 
i 
General Mitchell, Secretary of Defense Laird and FBI Director 
J. Edgar Hoover."' Vide Supra,"'Air America’ by P. D. Scott, 
Ramparts, February 1970, p. 39: "Madame Chennault’s husband, 
General Claire Chennault, had fought in China with General Chiang 
Kai-Shek; after the war he formed a private airline company. 
Both husband and wife have, through their involvement with the 
China Lobby and the CIA's complex of private corporations, 
played a profound role throughout our involvement in Southeast 
Asia, 
. 
. 
. In its evasion of Congressional and even Executive 
controls over military commitments in Laos and elsewhere, the 
CIA has long relied on the services of General Chennault's 
'pri- 
vate" paramilitary arm, Civil Air Transport or (as it is now 
known) Air America, Inc. 
. 
. 
. Air America's planes also serve 
to transport the Meos' main cash crop, opium." 
Time, 
ADDENDA: 
See also International Other Scenes section by Neil Phillips, 
ed. John Wilcock London-N. Y., November 1970 for jail gossip re 
CiA-KIP 
Consular & Admiral, short hair personnel involvement 
with Heroin traffic, factories in Athenian suburban Kefissa making 
Kilos since Greek Colonel's coup. 
KIP secret police & CIA asserted 
to share offices, 
(".. . The center of organized heroin production began to move 
to Greece almost immediately after the Junta grabbed power there 
three years ago, and at this time it is nearly all centered there, 
. 
. 
» It doesn't take many people to manufacture and import the 
nation’s uncut heroin needs; they must only pass borders freely. 
The CIA and the Greek government are totally involved, the agents 
passing freely by the score on their business of manipulating the 
affairs of Greece, and the Colonels have total control of their own 
fuzz-force, 
The Colonels only exist by the grace of the CIA, There 
are two known separate laboratories in Kefissa, a wealthy suburb of 
Athens, 
They are tight operations, 
No known smack leaks out, but 
is simply manufactured there, picked up by or delivered to middle- 
aged Amerikans, and plugged Into the mafioso mechanism in Amerika 
hours later, 
“How does one know these things which the \ ass Meat won't 
believe for another twenty years if ever? 
Greece is a small 
country; sit in jail awhile and you meet everybody. 
Throughout 
those lost years I was visited in jail by a wide variety of 
Amerikan consular officers, diplomats and other fuzz. 
Several 
times these visitors were seen by inmates who were close to 
the center of the heroin scene in Greece and instantly identified 
by name, occasionally by address, and always by role. 
Aman 
named Mr. Pederson (Peterson) was the regular pickup man for 
awhile, and when he later visited me in the political prison on 
ui 
the island of Aegena he was instantly identified by the members 
of the trumped-up Aspida conspiracy as the CIA agent who had 
t 
interfered behind the scenes in their scandalous trial and through 
cynical trickery conned them into giving testimony which was 
guaranteed to free them, but instead convicted them of treason 
to suit somebody's right-wing political purposes. 
That political 
prison 
also contained several members of KIP, the Greek 
equivalent of the CIA which in fact shares a common office with 
the CIA in Athens. 
These ex-agents had looked politically shaky 
to their fellow fuzz and ended up in their own prisons. 
“They all knew of the CIA heroin operation, some in tight 
detail, but did not make a big issue of it in their minds because 
dope traffic and police have always been knitted together in their 
society, as in any other where both exist. 
There was enough 
dovetailed detail in their casual and independent descriptions of 
the operations to withstand anybody's skepticism, and in fact 
two of them had been involved in the operation themselves at 
various times in small ways, including a couple of deliveries of 
fifty kilos of uncut heroin on the same day to a rear admiral in 
the U.S. Navy. 
“ There are also people who have walked out of Turkish jails. 
from time to time who know that Americans who are supposed to 
cf 
be monitoring the poppy-fields of Turkey are in fact selecting and 
pricing the flowers there and arranging for delivery to Greece, 
Amazing, perhaps to the innocent, but we are no longer that’ 
YOUNG 
10 
DIE! UM TOO 
” 
NICE TO 
Die! 
SN 
“e 
