«a 
Lol 
REARS, 
‘ 
* , 
. *¢ 
ee 
aM 
‘ 
4 TH fas 
‘ 
le 
1 with badias and voices cand ‘minds begging to carry 
eir ideas beyond the next room. 
Or, best of all, | could tell you about’ the secret 
at Pei aeraticns of the Great Aether God, a creature who 
- comes on the wind and turns our minds to porridge, our 
souls to putty, making us a slave to the means of trans- 
mission--so that we scheme/plot/plan to make ways so that 
we can broadcast. 
Broadcasting, the act of communicating, is as vital to 
some as eating and sleeping; it is as important to us as 
doom, flagellation, and the meaning of life. 
In the act of 
being so important, it has come to mean millions of bucks 
for the shameless rapists; but for a few--especially outside 
of the U.S.--it has come to create an artform all its own. 
‘An art that is so subtle that you and | may not even 
know it exists. As it may not. 
You Own the Airwaves 
Applicability of the Fairness Doctrine in the 
Handling of Controversial Issues of Public Impor- 
tance, Public Notice of July 1, 1964, available from 
FCC, Washington, D.C. 20554. 
Use of Broadcast Facilities by Candidates for 
Public Office, Public Notice of April 27, 1966, 
available from FCC, Washington, D.C. 20554. 
Personal Attack Rules, FCC 67-795, adopted 
July 5, 1967, available from FCC, Washington, 
D.C. 20554. 
How to Protect Citizen Rights in Le 
Television and 
Radio, available from Office of Communication, 
United Church of Christ, 289 Park Avenue South, 
New York, N.Y. 10010. 
The National Association of Broadcasters, an 
industry group formed by the broadcasters, is lo- 
eated at 1661 N Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 
20036. The NAB has established programming and 
advertising codes for the industry and can provide 
‘information about them upon request. The agree- 
ment to comply with the codes is voluntary on the 
part of each broadcast licensee. 
The Citizens Communications Center, at 1816 
Jefferson Place N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036, has 
recently been established to provide citizens with 
free legal assistance on selected communications 
matters. Free materials are available. 
--Nicholas Johnson 
How to Talk Back to Your Television Set 
_ recommended by William F. Buckley and Tommy Smothers 
For the past few years a growing number of groups 
and individuals throughout the U.S. and Europe have been 
~ 
discovering 
portable video tape equipment--in essence, a 
- 
portable, self-contained ‘’TV station,’ accessible to groups 
or individuals who can get together an initial $1500 invest- 
ment. 
Once people have obtained the tool, it has naturally 
lent itself to explorations of the environment which are 
most immediate and personal to. the experiences and in- 
formational needs of the people who are using the equip- 
ment--thus, the basis for a high-variety (as varied as the 
people who have equipment) and decentralized (for $1500 
thousands 
of people 
can have equipment) information 
network (the exact opposite of what broadcast TV now 
offers us). 
Inherent to the tool is the outlet for individual ex- 
pression. 
However, as with any attempt to implement a 
new concept it’s important to avoid isolation and to get the 
information feeding back and forth. 
Furthermore, 
it seems clear that a communications 
system such as broadcast TV with its commitment to high 
cost, basically immobile studio equipment, and its profes- 
sional actors and news crews, would be a deadly means of 
transmission for the new, fresh, “‘unprofessional’’ materials 
being made on portable video. 
The people and the technology and the means of 
transmission must be compatible, and mutually supportive. 
Thus far in ‘Radical Software” we have attempted in 
print form to. make people aware of this new technology, 
of the uses to which it has been put, and access to the peo- 
ple aware of this new technology, of the uses to which it 
has been put, and access to the people all over who are 
using it. Now it seems time, since enough people have ac- 
' 
quired the equipment, to begin an alternative to existing 
distribution systems. 
Thus we are offering a Video In- 
formation Tape Exchange, encouraging the development of 
many 
high variety information 
centers throughout the 
country, with people being able to select and request, the 
information which seems most vital to their needs. 
Issue No. 3 outlines this plan, as one information 
node, of implementing. this exchange, while encouraging 
others to do the same. 
For more information, help, advice, 
“write to us, Radical Software, 24 East 22nd St., New York 
City 10010, or call 212-982-5566. 
45 
