* 
. 
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MATERIALS 
For Study of History & Consequences of Criminalization of Opium Addict 
Population Including Political Documentation of Narcotics Bureau's 
"War against Physicians" & Police Opposition 
to Medical Treatment of Opium Addiction, 
Thus Encouraging a Mafia-dominated Black Market Cash Nexus 
Junk Business Thus Creating Epidemic Addiction, 
with a Cure for this Social Disease Proposed 
Narcotic Drug Addiction, Speech of Hon. Lester D. Volk (M.D. ) of New 
York in the House of Representatives, Friday, January 13, 1922: 
Washington Govt. Printing Office, 1922, 85292-22156 (I6pps. ) 
(Detailed analysis of N.Y, State Medical politics of that day 
based on pressure from "private: hospitals exploiting question- 
able 'cures.'" 
... "Apparently it takes but a twist of the 
wrist of the Revenue Department at the bidding of ignorant and 
egoistic, self-centered, and perhaps criminally inclined profes- 
sional men and administrators to put in force in these United 
States a set of regulations, drastic in their inception, unethical 
in their administration, and calamitous in their effect, " History 
of Clinic success, 
1920, aborted by Revenue Bureau, 
Instances 
of early persecution of medical specialists. 
Outline of most 
medical and social issues presently under discussion with infor- 
mation on specific unprofessional politics of ''a particular small 
group or clique" of bureaucratic lobbyists, names named. 
The Narcotic Drug Situation as It Affects the Penal Institutions, with 
emarks on Conditions and Treatment Therein: A Special Report 
_ 
Submitted to the N. Y, State Prison Commission by Ernest S, 
Bishop, M.D., F,A.C.P., Consulting Physician to the N. Y, 
State Prison Commission, New York City, p. 170 et seq. 
Annual Keport of the New York State Prison Commission, Febru- 
ary 17, 1922, 
Reprinted also in American V.edicine, New Series, 
Vol. XVII, No. 9, 1922. 
''The whole sifuation as to the handling 
of drug addicts in New York City is a deplorable one," Dr, 
Bishop recommends proper medical care of addiction as a dis- 
ease, 
As Volk points out Vide Supra, ''For this Opposition Dr, 
Bishop was indicted. 
. 
. 
. His persecution is a medical and 
political scandal and an obstruction to the solution of the drug 
problem." 
Volk, p. 11. 
Federal Law and Drug Addiction, Alfred R. Lindesmith, at Indiana Uni- 
_ 
versity, Social Problems, Vol. VII, No. 1, Summer, 
1959, pp. 
49-57, 
Historical discussion of administration of Harrison Act 
by repressive Federal bureaucracy rebuked by Supreme Court 
Lindner Decision 1925-and interpretations thereof, including 
Federal Judge Yankewich 
, 1936: 
"I am satiefied therefore, 
that the Lindner case and the cases that interpret it, lay down 
the rule definitely that the statute does not say what drugs a 
physician may prescribe to an addict. 
Nor does it say the 
quantity which a physician may or may not prescribe. 
Nor 
does it regulate the frequency of the prescription. 
Any attempt 
to so interpret the statute, by an administrative interpretation, 
whether that administrative interpretation be oral, in writing, 
or by an officer or by a regulation of the department, would be 
not only contrary to the law, but would also make the law un- 
constitutional as being clearly a regulation of the practice of 
medicine." 
(US v, Anthony, 15 F Supp. 533 (1936) 
\ 
The Addict and the Law, A. L. Lindesmith, reprinted paper, Random 
House paperback Vinta ge (1965)—Classic sociological history of 
problems and solutions, 
Narcotics Law Violations, A Policy Statement, Advisory Council of 
udges, 
National 
Council on Crime and Delinquency, 
1964. 
"Accordingly, the Advisory Council of Judges recommends 
_ that necessary action be taken, either by statute or by the ap- 
propriate bureaus and departments, to have the interpretation 
of the Harrison Act, as set forth in Lindner v, United States 
carried out administratively and the regulations of the Bureau 
of Narcotics amended to conform thereto. .. 
. 
"The nature of /present/ administration of the Harrison Act 
deters physicians from performing their ethical duties." (p. 14) 
"Derelictions of the Medical Profession Concerning Narcotic Addiction," 
Opinions and Views by Robert C. Stokes, M,D., Texas State 
Journal of Medicine, September, 1963, Vol. 59, pp, 830-842, 
(includes excellent reading list) "Society has accepted for 40 
years the idea that the word "dope" existed to modify the word 
“fiend”, 
, 
. 
. The Harrison Narcotic Act of 1914 was passed as 
a Tax Measure and its intent and purpose was to bring under 
AP 
MNT 
Ke SEAR 
‘Documents on Police Bureaucracy’s Conspiracy Against Human Rights of Opiate Addicts And 
; 
} 
Constitutional Rights of Medical Profession Causing Mass Breakdown of Urban Law And Order 
compiled by Allen Ginsberg, Scribe 
BEY OLY CY COSY CYYI CQHICHI 
control and force into legal channels the flow of narcotic drugs, 
+ 
+ 
« No one suspected , 
. 
. a federal police bureau dictating 
the terme under which a doctor can prescribe a narcotic drug 
for a patient. 
. 
. 
. The driving force in the big "take over" has 
been Harry J. Anslinger, who was the first commissioner of 
the Bureau of Narcotics and the ouly comminsioner from 1930, 
when the Bureau was established, until his retirement in 1962, 
- 
» 
. Rufus King suggests that the Bureau of Narcotics has "suc- 
ceeded in creating a very large criminal class for itself to 
police (i.e. the whole doctor-patient-addict-peddler 
community) instead of the very small one that Congress had in- 
tended (the smuggler and peddler)."’ 
The latter quote from 
Kolb, L., Drug Addiction: 
A Medical Problem, Springfield, t., 
Charles C, Thomas, 1962, 
"Report on Drug Addiction--II, " Bulletin of the New York Academy of 
Medicine, July 1963, Vol. 39, No. 
7, pp. 432-33, 
447, 460. 
". . 
« From the year of the Harrison Act to 1938 it is esti- 
mated that 25, 000 physicians were arraigned and 3,000 served 
penitentiary sentences on narcotics charges, 
About 20,000 
were said to have made a financial settlement, 
. 
. 
, For most 
» 
+ 
» it should be reiterated that they were following the then 
accepted medical precepts. 
"It is evident that the Supreme Court opinion in the £19267 
Lindner case, removing restrictions on treatment of addicts, 
had no noticeable restraining effect on the Treasury Depart- 
nent in its war on physicians, ... 
“The abandoned addicts, in order to satisfy their compulsive 
needs, were driven to the illicit traffic. 
. 
. 
. 
“Dictation, threats, hounding and oppression from the nar- 
cotics force over the years, and still continuing, were so in- 
delibly fixed in physicians’ minds as not to be easily forgotten 
or readily braved again, 
. 
. 
. 
"So thoroughly has the smear job on addicts been done, so 
outrageously but erroneously have they been depicted that the 
mere mention of their name has conjured up an image of dan- 
gerous criminals or fiends, 
. 
, 
. 
"This is what happens when revenue agents become dictators 
of medicine, 
. 
. 
. 
"It is reaffirmed that profit is a major force in the spread of 
addiction, .., 
"Fourty years’ valuable time has been lost; what new and 
better methods of treatment might have been found by research 
will never be known... ." 
New York State Department of Health, mailing October 21, 1970, 
Regulations Regarding Administration of Narcotics Drugs to 
Addicts, signed Hollis S. Iugraham, M.D., Commr. Health, 
4 pps. including on p. 4: "80,23 Methadone maintenance 
programs (a) Methadone maintenance programs may be con- 
ducted only by physicians or groups of physicians authorized by 
physicians or groups of physicians authorized by State and Federal 
Authorities to administer Methadone to addicts as part of a re- 
search program, 
"(b) Methadone maintenance programs shall require the 
following authorizations: 
(1) certification by New York State Department of Health, 
Bureau of Narcotic Control, to conduct a 'laboratory for the pur- 
pose of using narcotics in research, instruction, and analysis, ' 
(2) a class VI narcotic registration issued by the United 
States Internal Revenue Service Special Tax Section, with the 
approval of the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, United 
States Department of Justice; and 
; 
‘ 
(3) an investigational new drug license from the Food and 
Drug Administration of the United States Department of Health, 
Education and Welfare." 
New York Civil Liberties Union, The Narcotics Control Act: A Two 
Year Old Failure, September 1970, Vol. XVII, No. 7, p. 4: 
“For $15 miilion--less than a third of the Commission's yearly 
budget for compulsory treatment--about 2 1,000 addicts can be 
enrolled in ambulatory methadone programs, 
A four-year- 
trial of the methadone treatment has shown 94 per cent success 
in ending the criminal activity of former heroin addicts. 
. 
. 
. 
In this instance, our civil liberties concerns coincides with 
what is known about the effective treatment of addiction and the 
effective prevention of crime. 
Compulsory commitment doesn't 
help the addict and it doesn't protect the society, "’ 
Methadone Patients on Probation and Parole, by Herman Joseph and 
Vincent P. Dole, V..D., Federal Probation, June 1970, re- 
printed in 7 pps, 
"Analysis of the records of 912 patients ad- 
mitted to the program over a 4-1/2 year period showed a 90 
per cent drop in criminal convictions. !' 
103 
