be ag 
; 
eC 
present. 
In another 15 or 20 years-maybe much sooner--the 
. 
ipl ma Society, the whole antiquated system of edu- 
| 
onal accreditation, the points and credits and pieces 
Ee OE embossed paper, will be a shambles. 
| 
The idea that young people should be incercera‘ed 
_ 
for increasingly 
long sentences jin obsolete institutions 
“sealled schools needs to be reexamined immediately. 
The 
_ devastating extension of adolescence--a kind of enforced 
ee: if na 
Kev asta 
__ immaturity--is one of the horrors of today. 
- 
_ --- One alternative would be no school at all. A far bet- 
Suter’ one, however, would be the transformation -of the 
__ 
school into a totally different organism--one that permits 
iy _+sthe child, from the youngest age, 
to learn while performing 
a “useful services for this community. 
Depending upon age 
_ “whildren. could help. regulate traffic, take care of the aged, 
_ worry about pollution, noise and garbage--help make the 
: -<city'a more livable place. 
_ > » Rats run rampant-in Harlem and dog turds litter the 
we. 
all the present. Probing 
ast. 60s. The air is unbreathable. Traffic, an abomination. 
Millions. of old and lonely people, a whole hidden nation of 
Eleanor Rigbys, languish and die. 
But whenever you go to 
a politician with a proposal for doing something about it, 
you're told, “We don’t have the resources.“’ 
We are the 
richest nation in the world and still we supposedly lack the 
resources to take care of elementary needs. 
This is abso- 
lute absurdity. 
The fact is that we are not making use of 
the single biggest, most energetic and potentially construc- 
tive resource we have--50,000,000 young people currently 
packed away in ice--in school. 
In superindustrial society, knowledge is a key compo- 
nent of production, just as labor, land and raw materials 
were in the past. 
Students, and especially college students, 
stand in a common relationship to this newly important 
factor of production. 
This, by any reasonable definition, 
makes them a class. 
But, as a class, they are disenfran- 
chised. 
For longer and longer periods, they are held in cold 
storage and prevented from making a serious contribution 
toward the solution of community problems. 
The demand for student power on the campus is an 
exact index of student powerlessness off the campus. 
It’s very popular today to be anti-technology. 
We 
blame everything on the machine, from war to mass mis- 
education. 
Often the same people who run off at the 
87 
