ious difficulties which now actually threaten a// existence 
on earth. 
on 
Due to environmental changes some forms of disease 
_ have disappeared altogether, while others such as heart dis- 
ease, cancer, hardening of the arteries and diabetes baffle 
the best scientific minds and skills and are now as rampant 
as cholera, plague and leprosy were many centuries ago. 
The nature and quality of our food has been radically 
changed, supposedly making it more pleasing to the eye and 
taste, but far less nutritious. 
These gradual and insidious 
changes have more and more brought on the deficiency 
diseases which have undermined the health of hundreds of 
millions. 
Nutritional studies have shown that the eating and 
overeating of highly refined and concentrated foods such 
as sugars, 
starches, 
fats, milk, fatty meats, 
ice cream-- 
especially in the more affluent countries--has increased the 
cholesterol 
count of the body so that athero-sclerosis 
(build-up of fatty substances in the arteries) start to de- 
velop in the teens, and its accompanying destroyer, heart 
attacks, are now beginning to toll the death bell in the 
thirties and forties. 
Digestive, kidney, bowel, and liver function tend to 
_be broken down in mid-life thus creating a fertile soil for 
tumors and malignancies. 
We should also note that in some of the more prim- 
itive societies, living in a more natural and harmonious en- 
vironment with 
a minimum 
of our 
civilized needs and 
wants, people are usually free from these degenerative dis- 
eases for which science has little or no answer today. 
In recent 
years we have developed 
the power to 
“change our environment 
still further. 
In the need for more food production--most Ameri- 
cans eat at least twice to three times the amount of food 
necessary for health, placing a heavy burden on the di- 
gestive, circulatory and eliminative systems--and of course 
the necessary profits that go along with more production, 
we have found ourselves in a life and death struggle with 
other creatures and organisms who share our world with us. 
We have arbitrarily decided that we just do not have 
room for them. 
They are the so-called ‘‘pests’’.and ‘’weeds’’; so in 
_turn we produce pesticides and weed-killers to eliminate 
them. 
Of course, this solution sounds as if it were simplicity 
itself, but it means in fact that we have seriously upset the 
balances of nature which have been built up for many thou- 
sands of years. 
Thus we are creating a new environment to 
which we will have to quickly adapt ourselves, or else. 
No one can tell at this particular moment in time 
exactly what the future holds for us, but one thing is quite 
clear: 
In the near future the human body will be called 
upon to adapt very quickly to rapidly changing environ- 
. mental conditions, and disease as we know it today will of 
course change out of all recognition. 
And--every living thing will of necessity share in this 
change so that the entire biosphere--life as we know it to- 
day--must ultimately also be changed out of all recognition. 
Are there no other alternatives? 
Shall we allow this uncontrolled juggernaut called 
Science to ride roughshod over our lives and over every liv- 
ing thing on this planet, dragging us down whether we want 
100 
-a . better standard of health? 
--freedom from disease? 
--the living of a worthwhile, creative life? 
--an ethical relationship with all other living 
creatures? 
ee 
a 
hes 
--the soil from which we receive our food and 
ie: 
sustenance? ’ 
sale 
--our responsibilities to the world--whether 
“civilized’* or ‘‘underdeveloped”’? 
--and, finally, as caretakers for future unborn 
generations? 
\ 
; 
. 
(The author is director of the Soltanoff Chripractic 
Office in New York City; founder of Biopractic, 
a new 
natural therapy combining the sciences of chiropractic and 
nutrition; 
a member of the New York Academy of Sci- 
ences? 
and on the Board of Directors of the Shool of 
Living Commune, Freeland, Maryland. 
. 
(He has started a weekly column, including questions 
from readers regarding the natural approach to health, and 
publishes a bi-monthly newsletter ($5 yearly) which covers 
all areas pertaining to natural health. 
Dr. Soltanoff’s ad- 
dress is 136 W. Houston St., New York, N. Y. 10012.) 
! 
SEAWEED CHEMICAL PREVENTS POISON 
by 
Peter Calamai 
A purified chemical from common brown seaweed 
can prevent human poisoning from radioactive strontium 
and 
possibly 
other 
toxic 
metals such 
as mercury and 
cadmium, two Canadian scientists reported here Tuesday. 
The seaweed compound is also successful in treating 
animals already poisoned by strontium and cadmium, the 
scientists told a session at the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science annual meeting. 
Dr. Yukio Tanaka, a chemist at McGill University’s 
Gastro-intestinal Research Institute in Montreal, warned that 
— 
belated anti-pollution moves by governments may not show 
. 
positive effects in the lifetimes of most adults now living. 
PROTECTION 
“We must find means to protect ourselves in these 
polluted surroundings and to survive until our air becomes 
clean enough to breathe and our water safe enough to 
drink,” he told the scientific gathering. 
The seaweed research, funded by a grant from the | 
U. S. Public Health Service, also involved 
Dr. Stanley 
Skoryna, a surgeon and biologist at McGill and Dr. Jerry 
Stara, a specialist in veterinary medicine with the U.S. air 
pollution administration. 
The McGill researchers developed techniques of se- 
lecting the best seaweed for the production of the chemical, 
sodium alginate, and methods to strengthen poor alginate 
preparations. 
Dr. Stara, working in Cincinnati, Ohio, tested the. ah 
ginate preparations on cats and rats to ensure the chemical 
did its job without interfering with bone growth. 
In an interview with Southam News Services, Dr. 
Tanaka said, “We want to prevent absorption of pollutants 
when they are introduced into the body.” 
He said that by adding the tasteless alginate to the 
— 
