CLASS 
“C” 
CHAMPIONS. 
The Jugs, Springfield Creamery’s 
basketball 
team, 
won 
the 
Willamalane 
Industrial 
C League 
championship Thursday with a 88-79 win over Farrell’s at Spring- 
field Junior High School. In front from left are David Caldwell, 
Luke Freeman, Sheryl Kesey, Leslie Block, Isaac Babbs, Mouse 
Babbs, Billy Block, Kit Kesey 
Sq.~ Rabbs and Grim Babbs. In 
the second 
row 
are Joe Baker, Ken Garrison, John “Jaybird” 
Martin, 
Dave 
Smilouitze, 
Don Rushin, 
Zodiac 
Carl 
and Sue 
Kesey. In back are Garrett Rosenthal, 
Bill Block, Terry Tren- 
hom, 
Gary Mikkelson, Steve Van Brasch, Jay Crittenden, Bobby 
Steinbrecher and Ken Babbs. 
Long-hairs’ offense slowed as sheriff’s ‘posse’ moves in 
p 
Law, ‘Jugs’ tangle--in wild game 
By RAY MYERS 
Of the Register-Guard 
“We'll start the second half when we find out who 
ripped off with the basketball,” the perspiring referee said 
to no one in particular. 
Swirling around the perplexed official Friday night was 
a scene of wild, foot-stomping, yelling fun in South Eugene 
High School’s gymnasium. It was the mid-point in one of 
the most unusual basketball games in town this season. 
The match-up involved the cops vs. the long-hairs. 
The long arm of the law — the Lane County Sheriff's 
Office team — battled in friendly, exuberant combat with 
the heroes of communal living — the Springfield Creamery- 
sponsored Jugs. And it was all done to the accompaniment 
of the crowd and the Amazing Grace .rock band up in the 
balcony. , 
Jammed into the bleachers, the more than 1,300 specta- 
tors paid $1 each to watch the charity game that raised 
funds for the Eugene White Bird Socio-Medical /Free Clinic. 
And out on the hardwood floor, once the ref found the 
lost basketball (a couple of three-foot Bob Couseys were 
shooting baskets with it) the colorfully outfitted Jugs team 
Overcame their own problems to whip a rugged green-and- 
yellow-togged sheriff’s team to win in overtime, 104 to 94. 
The two-hour game was recorded on television video 
tape by some Lane Community College students “just for 
the heck of it,’”” one said.-It was conceived and produced by 
a Eugene drug salesman, Gary Middelsen, who also played 
for the Jugs. And it was interrupted many times by dozens 
of little kids who just couldn’t keep off the playing area. 
Nobody seemed to mind. 
Mostly it was exciting, hard basketball. And judging by 
the free-wheeling 
‘“‘vibes’” 
of the capacity 
and 
largely 
pro-Jugs crowd, the game was just great fun. 
The sheriff's team, 
led by guard Gary Stewart and 
player-coach Don Lighty, was hot in all but the last minute 
of the first half. The Jugs trailed by as much 4s eight 
points until they started getting through the deputies’ zone 
defense to tie it up at the half, 44-44. 
During half-time, 
the Amazing Grace group played, 
spectators milled and danced over the basketball floor and 
.the public address announcer threatened to auction off a set 
of Ford car keys if the owner couldn’t be found. 
The second half was all Jugs. Bobby Steinbrecher, John 
“Jaybird’” Martin, Chris Cotton, player-coach Ken Babbs 
and Dave Smilouitze drove the Creamery team past the 
sputtering sheriff’s office to a 79-72 lead with 2:46 left in, the 
game. 
; 
Then Stewart and guard Frank McCartt scrambled 
through piles — literally — of Jugs for enough points to 
catch the creamery guys at the 83-all game-ending tie. 
The game-winning insanity was all with the Jugs. They 
| 
stayed ahead of the hard-pressed deputies to win easily. 
But the overall victory belonged to everyone in that 
crazy-fun gym. 
85 
