1 
The New York Times, May 26, 1970: "O'Dwyer Calls for Giving Free 
~ 
Narcotics to Addicts, " by Clayton Knowles. 
('"Simply put,’ 
- 
Mr. O'Dwyer said of his proposal, 'the results must be the 
end of profit for the gangster and the pusher, and thus the end 
of the pusher salesman, ard, therefore, a vast reduction in 
new young addicts, 
. 
.., 
The cost of Administration by a 
gcevernment arency would be much less than the cost of any one 
of the major law-enforcement bodies now involved in the attempt 
to suppress addiction,'" 
ieport to the United Nations by Her Majesty's Government in the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the working of 
the International Treaties for Narcotic Drugs for 1968. 
(Contains 
statistics on containment of addict population and analysis of paper 
rise in new addict statistics "partly attributable to the operation of 
two new factors: 
(1) The system of compulsory notification of ad- 
dicts by physicians brought to notice addict patients who might 
otherwise have remained undetected by the Central Authority. 
(2) The system of allowing only specially licensed physicians to 
prescribe heroin for addicts, and the consequent reduction in the 
amounts individually prescribed, forced a number, of undetected 
addicts to present themselves for treatment instead of continuing 
to rely for their supplies of heroin on other addicts. 
. 
. ."') 
Report to United Nations, as above, 1969: 
''These statistics give ground 
or cautious optimism" on registered addict statistics leveling out. 
Hansard (House of Lords), Speech by Lord Stoneham, Undersecretary of 
State, Home Office, 26 March 1969, pp. 1279-1284. 
(Description 
of decline in new addiction statistics, 
''and we direct attention to 
this and to other encouraging pointers to a dimunition of the heroin 
problem. 
. 
. 
.- The notification scheme brought to light more than 
1, 000 possibly addicted persons previously unknown, most of whom 
have been seen by the treatment centers. 
The number who remain 
unnotified is anyone's guess, but it does not appear likely to be 
substantial. 
The weekly rate of notification has been steadily 
- 
dropping for sometime. 
. 
, 
. Of course it is too early to say 
whether the spread of heroin addiction has been checked or is 
petering out. '') 
The New York Times, April 29, 1969 (Bradford, England): 
". . 
. ac- 
cording to. C. G. Jeffrey, the Home Office's chief inspector for 
narcotics. 
. 
. 
. 'A certain amount of overprescribing goes on. 
. 
. 
but if anything it is better than under-prescribing, which could 
lead to an illicit market.'" 
A Little Anthology of Ctatistics selating Breakdown of Law & Order 
& Epidemic of Crime in <treets with Consequent 
Police-state Hysteria to the Original Sin of Denial 
5 
of Citizenly Constitutional Privacy & Freedom 
in Medical »elations between Doctor & Patient 
in Cases of Opiate Addiction 
".-. 
. From the year of the Harrison Act to 1938 it is estimated that 
25,000 physicians were arraigned and 3,000 served penitentiary sentences 
on narcotics charges. 
About 20,000 were said to have made a finanical 
settlement. 
. 
. 
. For most. 
. 
. it should be reiterated that they were 
following tne then accepted medical precepts. 
"It is evident that the Supreme Court opinion in the (1926) Lindner 
case, removing restrictions on treatment of addicts, had no noticeable 
restraining effect on the Treasury Department in its war on physicians. ... 
“The abandoned addic*3, in order to satisfy their compulsive needa, 
were driven to the illicit tr:ffic. ... 
y 
"Dictation, threats, hounding 
and oppression from the narcotics 
force over the years, and still continuing, were so indelibly fixed in 
physicians' minds as not to be easily forgotten or readily braved. .. 
. 
"So thoroughly h2s the smear job on addicts been done, so outrage- 
ously but erroneously }..ve they been depicted that the mere mention of 
their name has conjured up an image of dangerous criminals or fiends. 
. 
. 
. 
"This is what happens when revenue agents become dictators of 
medicine... 
. 
"It is reaffirmed that profit is a major force in the spread of addic- 
tion, 
. 2. 
"Fourty years’ valuable time has been lost; what new and better 
methods of treatment might have been found by research will never be 
known, ..."* 
"100,000 ADDICTS iXEPORTED IN CITY--Hearing fs Told Their Thefts 
Total $10 Million A Day."'--The New York Times, December 14, 1967 
"Assemblyman Podell, linking the estimates of Dr. Ramirez and 
é4r, Pierce, said this meant the city's addicts would have to steal $10- 
million a day, . 
. 
. He said the discrepancy between his estimate and 
the official police figure could be explained by the large number of vic- 
tims of criminals who do not bother to report to the police." The New 
York Times, December 24, 1967 
"Justice Botein said that half the crimes committed in New York 
City every year were by addicts. 
. 
. 
. 'We will have to give the addicts 
narcotics legally rather than have them roam the streets.'. 
. 
. He 
*Report on Drug Addiction--II, Bulletin of the New York Academy 
of Medicine, July 1963, Vol. 39, No. 
7, pp. 
-33, 
A 
s 
Times, February 9, 1968. 
i 
104 
Rea un eia. 
ie 
emphasized that /court/ calendars were clogged | 
there 
were 
not — 
enough judges to 
handle them. "--The New York Times, 
Monday, May 6, 
1968. 
; 
"Adopt the recommendations of the New York Academy of Medicine 
given long ago, to stop drug addiction, 
Protect the law-abicing Harlem 
— 
inhabitants from that 85 percent of the crime they are having inflicted on 
them by their fellow residents. 
I raise my voice to seek protection for 
the black masses who are unable or who are too terrorized to speak. ... 
Free us from violence. '--Letter to The New York Times, March 30, 1968, 
__ 
Geo, D. Cannon, M.D., Secty. Board of Directors, NAACP Legal Defense 
& Educational Fund, 
c 
\ 
‘ 
“Britain regards her addicts not as criminals but as sick people, 
= 
There is no accurate count on the number of addicts here, but one estimate 
__ 
ig that the figure has tripled tn the last five years. 
The Government's last 
official estimate of the total of known addicts was more than 1,400. 
But 
officials concede that the real figure is several times that."" The New York 
——— 
"The U.N, estimated that 30,000 to 35, 000 addicts live in New York, 
The study, prepared under a UN World Health Organization fellowship, 
pointed out. 
. 
. 
. There were no more than 2, 000 addicts in Britain by the 
end of 1968. "* New York Daily News, April 13, 1969. 
; 
"New Jersey has perhaps 7, 000 narcotics addicts, who may need at 
— 
least $30 a day. 
. 
. to buy Heroin, according to the State Law Enforce- 
sper Program Assistance Agency." --The New York Times, February 15, 
"More than 40% of the men and 70% of the women in our jails are 
addicts. '' New York Correction Commissioner George McGrath, New 
York Daily News, February 8, 1970. 
yah 
"Calling narcotics 'the single most important element in terms of 
the breakdown of criminal justice,' /U.S. Attorney Whitney North/ 
Seymour /Jr./ said addicts are responsible for at least half of the major 
crimes in the metropolitan area. 
. 
. 
. Only about 10% of the estimated 
62, 000 addicts in the metropolitan area have any contact with the various 
treatment programs, 
. 
, ."'--New York Daily News, July 20, 1970. 
— 
“The New Jersey State police began a statewide survey today, said 
to be the first of its kind in the country, to determine how many crimes 
are committed by drug users. 
. 
. 
. Estimates of how much crime is re- 
lated to narcotics use range from 30 to 70 percent. 
. . ." The New York 
Times (UPI), August 4, 1970, 
"STUDY HERE FINDS POLICE TIME DOMINATED BY NONCHIME 
TASKS--, 
. 
. Some other average times spent by patrolmen on different 
jobs were: burglary, 41.7 minutes; intoxicated persons, 25.9 minutes; 
fire alarms, 30 minutes; traffic violations, 21.7 minutes; rapes, 59.9 
minutes; and narcotics, 230,2 minutes. "--The New York Times, August 
3, 1970. 
j 
"In New York County alone, it /heroin/ accounted for 9,000 arrests 
for trafficking in the first four months of this year, and that was about 48 
percent of the cases disposed of by the supreme court of that county. 
- 
« 
« The result is that the whole system of criminal justice has become 
bogged down there, 
And these Supreme Court cases do not include another 
25 percent, such as burglaries and muggings resorted to by addicts to feed 
their habit,’ Rep, Claude Pepper (D. Fla.), The New York Times, 
August 2, 1970. 
: 
"From time to time Congress adds more judges but the total judicial 
organization never quite keeps up with the caseload. 
Two recent statutes 
alone added thousands of cases related to commitment of narcotics addicts 
and the mentally tll. '"'--Chief Justice Warren E, Burger, A.B. A. Con- 
Has St. Louis, August 10, 1970.--The New York Times, August 11, 
"TOMBS: AN IDEAL BREEDING GROUND FOR RIOTS--First, 
the inside 
- 
is crowded and filthy. 
Built to house 900 prisoners, the 1,900 inmates who 
linger there sleep two and three in a cell designed for one. 
. 
. few, if any, 
of the 1,900 prisoners who were in the Tombs on \.onday, when the rioting 
started, were there because they had been convicted of a crime. 
..ather, 
they had been denied bail or were unable to raise bail and were merely 
awaiting trial. 
Many of them, convicted of no crime, spend six months, 
nine months, a year waiting their day in court. 
. 
. 
. Where, they ask, are 
the due process and speedy trial provisions of the Constitution ?"+-The New 
York Times, Sunday, August 16, 1970, Martin Arnold. 
j 
"Michael J, Pollina, President of the city Criminal Bar Association, 
said that the population of the Tombs could be reduced by 25% if inmates 
charged solely with narcotics violation could be moved to other institu- 
tions, which he did not specify. 
. .. 
".. 
. pleas bargaining. 
. 
. defendants are pressured. 
. 
. but then 
© 
make defendants state on the record that no such deal exists. 
‘The Judge 
is party to a transaction which is illegal,' /Assemblyman/ Rangel de- 
clared. '--The New York Times, August 20, 1970. 
y, 
eal 
"Since Jan, 1 thru June 30, we have recorded a totai of 26, 157 nar- 
cotics arrests, an overall increase of 79.2 percent, compared with the 
previous year's figures of 14, 594 for the same six-month period... ." 
— 
Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary, The New York Times, August 20, 
1970. 
: 
"The /Corrections7 Commissioner /George McGrath/ cited the en- 
largement of the police force in recent years as another factor adding to 
