_ EDGAR CAYCE 
tons 
For a man who lived such an unconventional public life, Edgar Cayce came from 
deeply traditional American roots. Born in 1877, in Hopkinsville, Kentucky, of an 
old Kentucky family, he led a normal childhood except for a vision he had when 
he was seven years old. He was asked what he wanted to do with his life. He 
said simply that he wanted to help others, especially children. He was told his 
prayers had been answered but it was seventeen years before he realized just 
what lay before him, and even he himself said later that he had no concept of 
the implications of what was to come. 
Through the loss of his voice, and a subsequent attempt at a cure through 
hypnotic suggestion, he discovered that he could go to sleep and answer questions 
put to him. He lay down and entered a sleep-like state and talked; spoke on any 
subject about which he was queried, at any length necessary to answer the question. 
The talking was hard enough for him to accept, — but the fact that he seemed to 
have contact with a river of infinite wisdom—much of which was in conflict with 
his upbringing and beliefs, was even more disturbing. The fact that the information 
known as readings, proved correct time and time again did not make the problem 
easier. 
It is this relation between Edgar Cayce and his work that provides one of the 
most poignant aspects of the whole story. He himself never heard a word he said, 
nor remembered it when he woke up; and he freely admitted that he did not know 
how it worked. He said only that if it ever hurt anyone he would stop, but that as 
long as people asked and were helped he would continue. 
For most of the next forty-three years, 
until his death 
at 67 in 1945, he lay 
down 
and 
entered 
this sleep state at 
least twice each day. ‘‘The Work", as he 
called it, came before all else, and to it 
he sacrificed 
privacy and all hopes for 
financial achievement. His dream is coming 
true, however, 
for through 
his efforts 
thousands have been and are being helped. 
THE READINGS — 
The Edgar Cayce readings were given from 1901 until 1944, 
shortly before Edgar Cayce’s death. 
It is estimated 
that he 
entered his sleep-like state at least 16,000 times during those 
years, although there is no way of definitely knowing the total. 
The earliest reading in the files dates back to 1909, but regular 
records were 
not kept on 
a systematic 
basis until Cayce’s 
lifelong secretary, Gladys Davis, joined him in September, 1923. 
With but few exceptions all the readings given from that time 
on, a total of 14,249, are on file along with related correspondence 
and reports. The great majority of this has been carefully cross- 
indexed, and a compilation of over 200,000 file cards makes 
location 
of a given reading or topic mentioned 
in a reading 
possible at the Virginia Beach Headquarters library. 
The records defy easy precise categorization, since each one 
may deal with many topics, and the range of material, when 
viewed as a whole, is as broad as man’s history,and man himself. 
For 
the 
purpose 
of explanation, 
though, 
rough 
categories 
are traditional. 
Of the entire number by far the largest section, totaling 
8,985, 
is concerned with the mind and the body. This group, 
popularly known as the “‘ohysical readings’, deals with diagnosis 
of a specific individual's problems in this area, and a specialized 
recommendation for his treatment. 
The 
next 
largest group 
is generally known 
as the 
“life 
readings”. These 2,500 readings deal with vocational, psycho- 
logical, and human-relations problems. It was in this group, which 
Cayce only began giving many years after he had started the 
“physical 
readings’ 
that 
the concept of reincarnation 
was 
introduced. 
There are also 667 readings dealing with dream interpretation. 
The information indicated that dreams were powerful tools for 
man to use in his search for inner knowledge, and that inter- 
pretation 
of the symbols 
contained 
in the dreams was the 
key to understanding their content. 
Of the remaining 1,995, a rough break-down 
would yield 
almost as many categories as there are readings. This miscellaneous 
group covers a diverse field ranging from comments on geology to 
organizational advice on the A.R.E. itself. 
Perhaps the most generally applicable information given by 
the sleeping Cayce is contained in the thousands of references to 
the Bible and the message it carries to all men. These references 
suffuse the readings in all categories, and serve to point up the 
unifying principle that underlies all the Cayce material. While 
advocating no specific philosophy, religion or ism it expresses a 
deep belief in a Divine Creator of whose plan man is a part. The 
readings make it clear that if man would know himself, he must 
seek to live in harmony with this Creator’s plan. 
38 
apiece 
5 
Peter Friedman 
The Crest man talked to each of us individually and 
- 
then announced who was in which group. Then he said to 
me, ‘From now on you will brush with the Crest formula 
without flouristan, like ordinary toothpaste.” 
Why was | selected to brush with ordinary toothpaste 
— 
instead of with Crest? 
Have | been too pushy, or too re- 
tiring? 
Do my eyes betray the dull gleam of an ordinary 
toothpaste user? 
It seems hard to believe as I’ve seldom 
brushed with any toothpaste. 
At first, distinctions between Crest and ordinary _ 
brushers were subtle and went by almost unnoticed: 
per- 
haps a slight smile of recognition 
as one Crest user greeted 
another in the hallways before a class, and the hint of 
cheerfully coated condescension with which a Crest boy ac- 
knowledged an Ordinary boy. 
Then a new 
lilt appeared in the gait of the Crest 
users; they smiled to annoy. 
My own group slouched as it walked. 
Gradually we 
| 
drifted to seats in the back of the classroom. We now hang — 
our heads when saying ‘’Good' morning” to the teacher, 
while the Crest students open wide their mouths, curl back” 
their lips and smile white. 
One day, | asked myself, “Who is this Crest man to 
think he can arbitrarily condemn me to brushing with or- 
dinary toothpaste? 
Why should | stay in the ree val 
and wind up with 37%% more cavities?” 
| marched off in disgust to my local drug store to buy 
— 
a family-size tube of Crest. Only then did the full horror of 
the experiment manifest itself. 
: 
“No,” said the druggist; he regretted deeply, but he 
couldn't sell me any Crest. My name and picture had been 
given to him by the Crest people, and they had forbidden 
him to sell me any but the ordinary brands of toothpaste. 
They may restrict me to buying ordinary toothpaste, 
but they can’t force me to brush. 
| must take the only 
course morally possible: 
to stop brushing entirely. My 
cavities may mount, but the test shall prove invalid. 
With others like myself all over the United States 
putting down their toothbrushes in spontaneous protest, — 
there is still a chance, at least for the next generation, to 
return to normality. 
If the telling of my story serves to help others to 
better understand us, to know why we've become a retiring 
breed, then | shall feel that | have not not brushed in vain. 
— 
aha 
a! 
i 
OE 
Fa 
Rie 
i ee uy AA RMR Bits eee 
