Federal buildings now use single or twin entrances. 
Pack- 
ages and briefcases are inspected. All to protect the judges’ 
chambers from disturbance. 
It is symbolically appropriate to the srtuggle for hu- 
mane priorities that a co-defendant’s low |.Q. provided the 
vehicle by which the judge in the Angela Davis case disqual- 
ified himself as prejudiced. 
The actual motivation of that 
judge--fear--remains as a monument to our commitment. 
There Are No Blueprints 
Militants 
in America 
must become 
aware 
of 
_ 
the dead-end that they are boxed into by policies 
| based on classic revolution. Study of Fanon has 
revealed that the American continental landmass 
is not Algiers. Studies of Mao, Lenin, Giap and of 
the Sierra Maestra may have awakened dreams of 
genuine revolution but efforts to implement guer- 
rilla tactics do not work in a Constitutional Democ- 
racy with no “center of power” to overthrow. The 
capture of an American radio station is absurd 
when hundreds more surround it. The seizure of a 
state capitol is foolhardy with forty-nine more to 
go. Each state capitol has a House, Senate, Gover- 
nor, U.S. Representatives and U.S. Senators; each 
State Militia is reinforced by Federal units backed 
up by National Reserves capable of waging war in 
the Far East for ten years without once calling for 
Weather Underground 
full mobilization. Behind this array of might is the 
_world’s most destructive Air Force with capabili- 
ties ranging from napalm to the H-bomb. 
“The fundamental principle is that no battle, com- 
bat, or skirmish is to be fought unless it will be 
won.” 
CHE 
Militants now know that guerrilla warfare as prac- 
ticed by Che or the Tupamaros may be effective in 
countries the size of Rhode Island where a single- 
city Seat of Power permits of seizure, but in the 
U.S.A., the Super-Power, a country sprawled across 
half of the globe with governmental control divid- 
ed, checked, balanced, split, chopped and shredded 
geographically, temporally and personally, there 
is nowhere to start or finish. 
--L. Clark Stevens 
from “est” (Capricorn Press, Santa Barbara, Calif.) 
recommended by Buckminster Fuller and Wavy Gravy 
21 
