" 
-For some time now “scientists” have been interested 
in spontaneous or artificial immunity much more than in 
building up and strengthening natural inimunity. This arti- 
ficial immunity has been intensely studied, refined and of 
“course used for many years and now forms the basis of all 
_ the various forms of vaccination and immunization. 
If an individual has not been subjected to artificial 
immunity, (vaccination or immunization) the body tends to 
adjust itself to the activities of the environmental microbes 
and bacteria, and it does so by producing natural body anti- 
septics (antibodies) that apparently inhibit these activities. 
The immunization theory is based on the fact that 
_ when an individual suffers from various symptoms of a so- 
called “infectious” disease associated with microbe activ- 
ity--such as measles or smallpox--a second attack is unlikely 
or will not occur for some time. 
f 
What scientists have discovered through the study of 
these disease reactions is that by injecting the body with 
dead, attenuated microbes, viruses or bacterial poisons he is 
thus able to artificially induce this adaptive process and 
immunize the individual against the full force of that par- 
ticular disease. 
This is the premise upon which all the various forms 
and types of artificial immunization are built and although 
the future is certain to bring about new and different pro- 
cedures, we must accept the fact that at the present time 
these methods have for the most part the whole-hearted 
approval of the orthodox healing professions throughout 
the world. 
According to some bacteriologists, the main ob- 
jection to this method, aside from the fact that there is al- 
ways a definite amount of pollution of the blood stream 
and therefore a certain element of risk involved--a recent 
statement from an authority in this field stated that mass 
_ vaccinations in the U.S. would kill at least 100 infants an- 
nually and probably damage the nervous systems of at least 
500 more--is that so long as this method is used there will 
a 
be little if any chance of humankind ever acquiring natura/ 
immunity. 
Re 
Worse, 
as long as these methods are relied upon, 
\ 
other factors will not be taken into consideration. For ex- 
: 
ample, the important environmental factor of proper nu- 
| 
_ 
trition could have such a positive effect in upgrading Amer- 
ican standards of health that it might be the key to unlock- 
ing the natural immunity problem and making artificial im- 
munization unnecessary. 
Here, history can teach us an important lesson. 
Let us take a few acute diseases such as diphteria and 
smallpox and examine them. 
As time has come and gone and great environmental 
changes have taken place, the mortality rate from these two 
__ dangerous diseases has almost totally diminished. 
Arrtifi- 
___ 
cial immunization methods have been employed and some 
| 
will confidently claim that this is the reason for their de- 
cline, as if environmental influences played no part at all. 
latural Immunity 
§ Suftticient‘ ? 
y 
Jack Soltanoff, D.C. 
In a-recent issue of the New England Journal of 
"Medicine Drs. J. M. Lane and J. D. Miller stated: ‘’The ben- 
efits of routine childhood smallpox vaccine no longer out- 
weigh its risk; consideration should be given to its discon- 
tinuance.”’ 
But serious outbreaks do occur anywhere 
in the 
world--regardless of immunization or vaccination--wherever 
environmental conditions deteriorate as with floods or fam- 
ine, or where social upheavals such as war or revolution 
break down existing sanitary or hygienic safeguards. 
It is wise, therefore, whenever trying to evaluate any 
type of preventive health measures, especially those based 
on artificial procedures such as vaccination or innoculation, 
to give some credit to certain advancements in the social 
and hygienic areas, especially in new standards of living 
(shorter work week, refrigeration, faster and safer trans- 
portation of food, improved sanitation). 
Yet the uninformed public is always more inclined to 
credit only scientific ‘‘advances’ or new forms of ‘‘treat- 
ment” without realizing that scientific grounds alone are 
never the entire answer. 
In Europe centuries ago, social, political and hygienic 
conditions for the masses were 
in a chaotic state; many 
forms of disease ran rampant, including leprosy, plague, 
cholera, smallpox, the ‘sweating’ sickness and many more. 
Today, they have all almost disappeared. 
For some, it is claimed that artificial preventive meth- 
ods are the reason for their disappearance. 
But this argu- 
ment loses its validity when it must be admitted that many 
other equally serious diseases have also been eradicated 
without the aid of specific treatment. 
Once 
it is admitted that social and environmental 
changes are factors in the elimination of disease, (sanitary 
engineers, political and social changes, and trade unions for 
example) then the argument for specific “‘preventive’’ treat- 
ment is left on very flimsy ground. 
In order to preserve health and prevent disease hu- 
mankind should be considered not in isolation but in the 
entire environmental setting. Nor can we therefore think of 
disease as being the result of one single cause. 
We should think of life on earth as a biosphere in 
which all of us are entwined and enmeshed together and to 
which adjustment and adaptation to all other creatures and 
organisms is essential. 
This ability or inability to adapt ourselves to our: 
physical, social and enviranmental surroundings is in large 
part respansible for our individual capacity for health and 
disease. 
Since human beings have developed intelligence and 
learned to exercise extraordinarytechnical skills, unlike any 
other living creature, they have been able to alter their en- 
vironment greatly. 
This has helped their ability to survive, often under 
adverse environmental conditions, and to do so in comfort, 
but the manipulation of the environment has created ser- 
99 
