George Walker 
Attributed to Edgar Cayce is the claim, eat an almond 
a day and you won't get cancer. 
Underlying this is the 
basic fact that cancer, like most bodily malfunctions, is the 
result of a dietary deficiency in certain natural substances. 
Supply these* substances, and the adverse condition won't 
develop. 
This is fine (if it works), but what about the 
millions of people Who already have cancer? 
My friend 
Barclay, dying of cancer 10 years ago, got the flash: 
The 
only thing that will cure an ailing body is that which will 
keep it healthy in the first place. 
This was Hippocrates’ 
(remember him? the father of medicine, the Hippocratic 
oath?) basic theory a couple thousand years ago. 
The doctors had all come to the same conclusion re- 
garding. Barclay’s case: 
more and stronger pain killers for 
the remaining few months of his life. 
His cancer was not 
the kind they could chop out or burn out with radium. For 
Barclay, it was more morphine, or the search for. ‘that 
which will keep it healthy. . .‘’ Some choice! 
But he found 
that there are places in the world where nobody ever gets 
cancer. 
Convinced that diet is a factor, he looked to see 
what they all had in common. He read everything he could 
find relating diet to cancer, and found out about a chemical 
substance found in almonds, apricot seeds, lima beans, and 
many other foods. 
Isolated by Dr. E. T. Krebs at the same 
time Hoffman discovered LSD, the substance was called 
amygdalen. 
It is now being marketed (but NOT in the 
U.S.) under the name Laetrile, and is also known as vita- 
min B-17. To prevent cancer, we need only include in our 
diet those foods rich in B-17, provided our diet is balanced 
‘in other respects. 
However, once cancer has developed, it 
takes more to suppress it, and the use of the concentrated 
substance becomes necessary for control. 
i 
Cancer 
cells have the interesting ability to obtain 
oxygen directly from sugar; normal 
cells depend_on the 
oxygen supply in the blood. 
It is through this sugar metab- 
olism that cancer starves the body, ripping off all the avail- 
able sugars. 
The more sugar eaten, the more the cancer 
feeds, the more it grows and the more there is of it to rip 
off sugar. 
(Does this tell you anything about eating lots of 
sugar?) 
It is also through this sugar metabolism that B-17 
works against cancer. B-17 is a complex sugar-cyanide mol- 
ecule. 
Cancer cells metabolize it for oxygen, and free the 
bound up cyanide, which kills the cells. 
The normal cell, 
unable to break down the complex molecule, is unaffected. 
Further, the normal cells contain a substance, which pro- 
tects them against small amounts of cyanide, and which 
cancer cells lack. 
The Laetrile (B-17) treatment is effective in a high 
percentage (90%?) of cases, usually in this pattern: almost 
immediate reduction or cessation of pain; gradual reduction 
and disappearance 
of growths; 
regaining of health and 
strength, where proper diet is maintained. Even in the best 
cases, it does not constitute a cure. A maintenance dosage 
of B-17 must be taken or-the cancer returns. 
This, how- 
ever, is no problem, as the substance has been shown to be 
totally non-toxic. in one of the most exhaustive toxicity 
studies ever undertaken. 
Or rather | should say it shou/d be no problem. B-17 
is not approved in this country. 
You can’t get any legally 
unless you go to Mexico or West Germany--or Russia--or 
the Philippines--or any one of perhaps 100 other countries 
where they are either using it or testing it; and then you 
would have to smuggle it in. 
In the U.S. the government 
won't even allow it to be tested. 
The Food and Drug Ad- 
ministration (FDA), for unknown reasons, takes a parti- 
cularly hard line on cancer drugs. The official policy seems 
to be to suppress such drugs, label them ‘’quack cures’’, and 
prosecute anybody who tries to provide them to the hun- 
dreds of thousands of dying cancer patients. 
A program 
for testing Laetrile (B-17) was begun last year, after 25 
years of testing and use in other countries, and then stop- 
ped two weeks later when somebody high up in the gov- 
ernment (Surgeon General?) found out the program had 
been approved ‘through clerical error’’! 
Meanwhile, mil- 
lions are spent yearly on cancer research, all in attempts to 
“prove’’ that cancer is caused by a virus (it’s not!); total 
evidence found so far; none. 
Billions are spent yearly by 
the million or so people receiving the same treatments: 
surgery, radiotherapy, and a few drugs so toxic they are 
only used in ‘‘hopeless’’ cases to keep the patient alive a 
little longer, and prolong the expensive treatments. 
The 
number of these people is increasing rapidly--on the order 
of 100,000 more every year. 
So keep eating those almonds. 
When you eat fruit, 
eat the seeds (that’s where the B-17 is and it’s needed to 
balance the fruit sugar)--apples, pears, etc. 
In apricots, 
peaches, plums, cherries, etc., break open the pit and eat 
the seed 
inside. 
Smuggle B-17 from Germany 
if your 
friends get cancer. 
If you want to know more about the 
technical aspect, what cancer is and how it develops, how 
Laetrile is effective against it, read Laetrile: 
Contro/ for 
Cancer, Kittler, G.D., Astor-Honor, Inc. 205 E. 42nd St., 
New York, N.Y. 10017. 
This book is excellent on the 
technical-cellular-chemical-biological aspects of cancer gen- 
erally, and of the Laetrile treatment. 
I’m not sure the his- 
ory is accurate. 
Lots of big words like glucosidases and 
glucuronidases, 
trophoblasts 
and metasases--but 
clear 
e- 
nough if read carefully. 
If you ask your doctor, don’t be 
surprised if he gives you the straight official line: 
Laetrile, 
like a lot of other substances (remember Krebiozen?), is a 
49 
