ys 
Is 
I I 
K 
. jacking his partner around for twenty. 
It was the same 
- 
‘way in Prehistoria you know, lots of big critters ambling 
_ about, flying above and tyranessorissing around. Also there 
were the weird dark places, undergrowth, you understand, 
where the, sun never shone, the mire, the deep deep mire, 
where twenty’s twenty and you, Weasel, skedeedle. 
And just as it got black, old man Deboree comes 
along with.one easy oops of his old pitchfork uncovers a 
piece of the crust that has been lying about in the most 
bottom active enigma undergrowth 
for about as many 
years. 
And does it ever squirm under the warm, warm 
sunlight, eventuating into, after becoming a snake, a glo- 
worm, and then, on through dog-doom. 
Doing time in all 
whereabouts and manner of situation, without ever letting 
his retina wander from the ever-present sphere. 
Application of the basic rule, again you see 
will get you through this mess to be. 
This piece of massy mess to be, 
the out there for him, and you, and me. 
What will it be? 
What willed to be 
not mine own but, 
thine to be. 
The FLUTE 
by 
Paul Robertson 
Make music with that exhaust! 
If you can make a 
sound by blowing over the top of a bottle you can play the 
flute. 
If you have wished you could make music without 
frightening the neighbors you should give the flute a try. 
You can rent a beginner’s flute at any good music 
store for eight to ten dollars a month to try yourself out. 
If you decide to buy a flute and the store is reputable you 
can apply past rentals to the purchase price. Gemeinhart, 
_ 
Artley and Armstrong are the most popular models and are 
all adequate. 
They all cost between $120 and $150, and 
are made of a nickel alloy. Will not depreciate much unless 
you beat them up. 
Better flutes are made of silver or gold. 
If you have $400 to spend buy a King Sterling Silver flute 
with gold plating. 
If you have $1000 to $3000 consult the 
Haynes Company for a custom job. If you buy a used flute 
take it to someone knowledgeable before you buy. 
When putting your flute together avoid putting pres- 
sure on the keys. They bend. 
Don’t clean it; you'll only 
bend the keys. 
The flute runs on air so you must breathe correctly 
to play it with satisfaction. 
Yoga breathing techniques are 
a help, but you must use your mouth as well as your nose 
to inhale. Consult Ramacharaka, The Science of Breath for 
breathing techniques and exercises. 
Fill the lungs every 
time you breathe and use up each breath completely before 
taking another. 
Begin. playing with the “head joint’’ or mouthpiece 
only. Make a small aperture with your lips without pucker- 
ing or swelling them, drawing the lips into a slight smile. 
Rest the mouthpiece gently under your lower lip and blow 
both into and over the hole adjusting the position of the 
head joint and the airstream until you get a note. A com- 
mon error is jutting the jaw out or pulling it in too far--try 
to keep the lower jaw flush with the upper. Don’t be afraid 
to blow hard and long. 
When you get dizzy rest. 
Pretty 
soon you will not get dizzy and will have to revert to other 
tools to acquire this effect. 
When you have mastered the head joint put the fiute 
together. 
Buy a beginner's flute book with a picture of a 
person playing and a fingering chart. 
Remember that the 
° 
weight of the flute rests on the third joint of the left index 
finger and the right thumb. You will need your left thumb 
for keying so don’t get it tied up supporting the flute. Play 
standing for fifteen minutes at a time. Play every day until 
you acquire some strength. 
Keep the flute out of the case 
at home so it is easy to pick up and play when you feel like 
it. Take it with you /n the case when you go places. When 
there is a Jull you will want to play. The fingering is tricky 
so if you need help give me a call or find a teacher in your 
local area. 
I'm Paul, 415-328-7450 
Intermediate 
players 
will 
prosper 
exercising with 
Oliver Nelson’s Patterns for Sax available thru Noslen 
Music, P. O. Box 705, Hollywood, Calif. 90028. 
$7.00 
Best place in S. F. Bay area to look for music, solos, duets, 
trios and quartets is House of Music in Berkeley. 
tgs 
Shannon Kesey 
Since | am not old enough to drive a car | ride a 
bike. 
It’s not as fast of course but it gets you someplace 
and it does not cause pollution. 
| practice riding my bike 
every day that I can. | can ride without hands pretty good. 
The first bike | got was when | was six. 
1! couldn't ride 
good then, but now | am ten and | can ride pretty good. 
| used to think | liked to ride in a car but now | would 
rather go bike riding. 
| like bikes because they are better 
than walking and cleaner than cars. 
55 
