qT 
J 
oh) 
re 
t 
a 
tives shot pool with cronies. 
. 
PRIVATECOLL 
Caron 
Out of this clear and hitherto unpublished daguerreotype comes 
the steady, commanding gaze of 
Frederick Douglass, the escaped slave who became the first true leader of his race iri America. Once a 
field hand and house servant, he rose to be a noted orator who knew and advised great men of his time. 
Malcolm X 
Somewhere in Soul Central, 
Atman 
Dear Malcolm: 
| wish | could have met you. 
| couldn’t have known 
you, really, not in those years; you would have fingered a 
guilt so deep in me that | would have puffed up and spit 
blood from my eyes like my uncles always told me horned 
toads would do when absolutely nonplussed, and me think- 
ing to myself, ‘What good does it do to blind yourself with 
your own blood?” 
But now | wish | could have met and known you, 
without guilt or fear of the consequences of that guilt’s 
assuagement, because | have learned some things since those 
years. 
Let me speak to you, man; | mean you're dead and all 
of course but who really knows? So let me really level with 
you: 
| was never cognizant of the words in Aretha Frank- 
lin’s RESPECT until one long gritty weekend Friday night 
and summer Saturday and then summer Saturday night in 
_ the holding tank at the San Mateo County Jail with a dozen 
other dudes and me the only one with a skin of white. 
That long and sleepless hot night while somewhere else low 
riders licked fingers clean of spare ribs and red neck rela- 
\ 
and the moon outside, 
pressed against the bars of our only window like the red- 
dened face of a drunk Irish bull) | finally realized what it 
was she was spelling: 
are ee ess pee ee see tea! 
For hours my cellmates rendered sides of The Miracles, 
‘The Temptations, The Four Tops, far into the night, past 
lights out, and the time when the guard will usually come to 
order things quieted down, past the time when the badder 
dudes in the security block will threaten mayhem if some- 
body doesn’t shut the fuck up. Nobody raised a protest to 
_ 
Singing. Because on a Saturday night in a county jail every- 
i 
body 
is doing time, black and white, cop and con alike, and 
respect goes to those who do it well, and with the style and 
honesty that is drawn from roots that go down past the 
topsoil to the bedrock of humanity. 
It does something to 
the voice and everyone can hear it. King had the same roots 
nourishing his voice, so did Woodie Guthrie and Hank Wil- 
liams, and your voice must have had the same bedrock ring 
.if so much of it comes through your writing. 
__ 
I'd be nervous now still, could we meet on the eye-to- 
eye plane, but because of Saturday nights like this | don’t 
think | would be so afraid as to blind myself with my own 
blood. Things change hard. 
It’s taking me a while to get 
through your autobiography. It’s not a work a person can 
breeze through the way one does a work of fiction because 
actual development is taking place, on your end as you do 
it and on mine as | have it done to me. But 1’! get it. 
Respectfully, 
4 
Ken Kezey 
=e} 
;, Hemingway 
oy 
¢ 
Sometimes its hard to tell if Hemingway was writing 
the Judy Garland Story or if it was Janis Joplin writing the 
Ernest Hemingway Story; they’re all such tragically similar 
tales of what happens to people who stare a trace too long 
into the Spotlight. 
There are some hints, though, to help 
the necromantic sort the rea/ corpse from the pile of hollow 
husks: 
don’t be misled by the bodies of bullfighters or 
the riddled remains of soldiers; look instead for live trout 
on the bottom vibrating against the clean current, or bacon 
fat going cold on a veteran’s breakfast plate, or old boards 
going sharp into focus through a pair of binoculars; in those 
delicate transitions where nothing actually moves you may 
find something of the slow and gentle old giant. 
Even in 
his last book, which 
is, apparently, 
heavily put down, 
you'll find gleaming deposits of these intensely true per- 
ceptions. 
Even when you watch his media-maddened ego 
begin to lead him astray you still feel you can trust your 
head to go along with him; he never crossed anybody 
except himself. 
a
| e
- 
