The future is bought with the present. 
ite 
a oe: rie 4 
Samuel Johnson 
ae 
ee 
by 
Jerome Agel 
“Current events take up too much time.’’--10-year old 
public school student. 
. 
vie 
“If that’s the way it’s going to be, | don’t want to be 
here.’’--Alvin Toffler’s mother on learning content of her 
son’s book Future Shock, 
Alvin Toffler is a fugleman, and what he’s fugling is 
his theory that rate of change is the single most important 
environmental 
force 
in high-technology nations (i.e., in 
most of the world’s northern hemisphere). 
“Somebody,” says Toffler, ‘‘has to decide that the 
rate of change needs to be moderated, controlled, regulated 
— 
-and not just unleashed. 
| am not a Luddite. 
| am basical- 
ly pro-technology, but | want it responsibly controlled. 
| 
want to know what it is going to do to the individual and 
to his life--to me. 
Future Shock focuses principally on the 
individual and his interactions with the micro-environment 
in which he lives.” 
Toffler defines future shock as a time phenomenon, 
the dizzying psychological shock suffered by people when 
they are forced to adapt and re-adapt repeatedly to an ac- 
celerating pace of changes in society. Hippies, for example, 
are already suffering from future shock, ‘the primary dis- 
ease of the future.” 
The malaise, mass neurosis, irrationality, and free- 
floating violence already apparent 
in contemporary 
life 
are merely a foretaste, says Toffler, of what may‘lie ahead 
“unless we come 
to understand 
and treat this psycho- 
logical disease. 
Change 
is avalanching down upon our 
heads,” 
he writes, “and most people are utterly unpre- 
pared to cope with it.” 
Alvin Toffler rapped with this reporter: 
The environmental teach-in is excellent--it’s positive 
politics. 
dead fish, smog and billboard-cluttered highways. 
The pace 
of life produced by runaway change is itself a form of 
psychological or cultural pollution--and something must be 
done about that, too. 
It is no longer a matter of controlling technology in 
the traditional sense. 
Quite apart from the impact of this 
nuclear reactor or that supersonic jet, there is the impact 
of decreasing time spans between innovations. 
We need to 
look at whole chains and sequences of technology--and the 
pace at which they force people to adapt. 
Everyone talks about change. You can’t attend a pro- 
fessional meeting 
these 
days without hearing someone 
sound off about it. But hardly anyone has thought deeply 
about it.. 
The economists talk about accelerating scientific 
and technological change. 
The historians talk about the 
increasing “velocity of history.“ 
But until now the psy- 
chologists have ignored the impact of high speed change on 
the inner life of the individual--on his ability to reason, for 
example. 
But it will boomerang unless we reach beyond 
Future shock is culture shock in your own 
society. It 
arises from the rapid superimposition of a new, alien cul- 
ture on our familiar one. 
We are all “strangers in a bil ae 
land.” 
High speed change affects your physiology. the pele! 
‘biology of the human organism--and it can produce strange 
Pump change and novelty 
_| 
and menacing consequences. 
into a population and you alter its biochemistry. 
You 
also run the risk of seriously damaging 
it psychologically. 
Many of the young people who have lit out for rural 
communes or have turned inward are fleeing future shock-- 
trying to get away from the high levels of environmental 
stimulation produced by the acceleration of life. They are 
also fleeing the future. 
The new interest in environmental quality repreone 
a healthy shift in our thinking. 
Until now, much of the 
protest has been almost pathologically past-oriented. 
; 
The back-to-the-earth movement is only one mani- i 
Instead of probing the 
festation of this past-orientation. 
future, trying to humanize it, we have copped out and tried 
to escape into the past. 
Three central forces are generating high speed change 
today, forcing the levels of stimulation up, causing stress 
and future shock, and intensifying the malaise, violence 
and sickness in our midst. 
These forces are, first, the un- 
controlled scientific and technological lunge into the fu- 
ture; second, population increase; and third, the shift in age 
distributions that has produced a larger youth component 
in the society. 
This “youth bulge,” as the dem Caron Re 
call it, has not been absorbed by society. 
Runaway change--not just at the level of machines 
but of human interaction--leads to personal and social sick- 
ness. 
Today, despite all the talk about power structures 
and elites, the fact is nobody is in charge. Asa British MP 
friend of mine puts it: “Society’s gone random.” 
We can’t hope to control change, to modulate it, to 
make it go in decent, humane directions, until we stop be-- 
ing nostalgic about a glorious yesterday that was, in fact, 
brutal, gloomy, stultifying and miserable. 
The nostalgia sweeping through the society today is 
pathological--and it is being exploited by what ! call the 
nostalgia business. 
Why are so many people wearing the 
hair styles, rimless glasses and deerslayer boots of past eras? 
— q 
The art nouveau craze, the Humphrey Bogart thing, the 
Bonnie and Clyde fashions, the Tiffany lampshades and 
campy gimcracks are all references to a past that are, by 
and large, well rid 
of. There are parts of the past that are, 
no doubt, worth preserving. 
But the wholesale adoption 
of yesterday’s styles and fashions is a sign of illness rather 
than civilization. 
Another sign of sickness is an edueation industry that 
was obsolete a generation ago. 
To create adaptive human 
beings, people who thri ve on change, we need a new kind of 
education. 
We need to teach the future--to alter the time per- 
spective of the student. 
Progressive educators half a cen- 
