In the early subversive hours one December morning, 
a pair of raids occurred at two local Selective Service head- 
quarters in New Jersey. 
The Hoover Vacuum Conspiracy did’em. 
The FBI was called into the case. They are still look- 
ing for the group named in honor of their own eternal 
leader. 
— 
_ This statement was left in place of the draft board 
files: 
We are American citizens of conscience exercising our 
_ right as declared in the Declaration of Independence that 
when a government becomes destructive of the ends for 
which it was created it is the right of the people to alter or 
abolish it and to institute a new government. 
Let the act be interpreted as a pledge of solidarity 
with young black, brown, red and white Americans who are 
- 
fed into the war machine of ever-escalating conflict in 
Southeast Asia. We refuse to accept the Nixon myth which 
speakd 
_ 
speaks of winding the war down. 
ie 
The destruction of these documents of death makes 
us one with the East Coast Conspiracy to Save Lives and 
the ever-widening circle of conscience in this country which 
opposes genocide. of black, Puerto Rican, Indian and Chi- 
cano communities of America, manipulation and dehuman- 
ization of Middle America, raping of countries in Asia, 
Africa, South America and Europe, and cooptation of 
American physical and spiritual resources into a culture 
which deals them death. 
_ 
Nixon nonsense and Hoover harassment does not 
deter us nor does prison prevent us from declaring that we 
stand firm against repressive American policies. Therefore 
_we choose a life style which espouses peace in the inter- 
national community, values life over property and insures 
justice for all. 
We seek the freedom to conspire toward these ends. 
Beside the statement, members of the Hoover Vacu- 
um Conspiracy left behind Christmas greetings and the ever- 
popular ‘End the War Now!’ 
They: called various news 
media, including listener-sponsored WBAI-FM in New York 
City, whose News Director, Paul Fischer, requested an in- 
terview with members of the group. 
He was phoned again and told to present himself at 
the southwest corner of 2nd Avenue and 49th Street at 9 
p.m. 
He did so. 
At 9:20 contact was made and he was 
.taken to a midtown motel where a room reservation had 
already been made in his name. 
To protect themselves, the members of the Hoover 
Vacuum Conspiracy used psuedonyms: 
Billy, Robin (fe- 
male) and Bob. 
The interview follows: 
Fischer: 
Well, on the night of December 
18th, a 
group of people went into two draft offices in New Jersey, 
one in Elizabeth and one in Union City. And in the Eliz- 
abeth office thousands of files were destroyed, particu- 
larly the files of those nearest to induction, while in Union 
City the same files were carried out with all the cross ref- 
erence material. 
What made you decide in one case to de- 
stroy the draft files and in another to take them with you? 
Robin: 
Well, | think it was expediency in Elizabeth. 
It was a situation where we felt we could do the work right 
there without too much difficulty and in Union City it 
seemed better to take them out rather than stay in there 
and destroy the files within the office because there was 
more a possibility of being caught within that office. 
Fischer: 
\Nell, you have these draft files. What do 
you plan to do with them? 
Bob: 
We don’t exactly--we no longer have them. 
It 
would be hard to say who does at the moment, but | assure 
13 
