on skeleta} 
patients with the sitoretiots of polio- 
f 
_ PEDIATRIYA 
7) 5): 32-35. 1965.--Of 152 children 
uffering from the aftereffects of ‘paralytic polio, 79 received a fluid 
extract from ginseng root (one drop for each year of age) half an hour 
before meals for about 1 1/2 months in addition to other treatment. 
The other 73 children served as a control group. A series of 
measurements of the total tonicity of muscles in the hip and knee 
_ showed that there was an increase in the tonicity in both sets of. 
muscles which was significantly greater in the experimental group 
_than in the control. The mean increase in body weight-was also 
significantly higher in the group receiving ginseng extract.--M. M. Da: 
92497, 
PETKOV., V., and D. STANEVA-STOICHEVA. 
(Post- 
graduate Med. Inst., Sofia, Bulgaria.) The effect of an extract of 
Ginseng [Panax] on the adrenal cortex. 
In: 
Pharmacology of oriental 
plants, 
R 
T PHARMACOL MEETING 
7(2): 39-45. 
Illus. 
1965. --All the data obtained indicate that the Ginseng extract investi- 
gated by us had a stimulating effect on the adzenal cortex. 
This was 
_ especially evident from the results of direct quantitative determinations 
of the corticosteroids excreted in the urine. 
These data indicate the 
the adaptive reaction of fhe organism can be actively regulated by 
pharmacological methods. 
In the experiments in which the animals 
were subjected to severe stress, we obtained a statistically significant 
increase of the eosinophil count in the control animals. 
This reaction 
was probably due to Severe, rapidly appearing insufficiency of the 
adrenal cortex. 
In this case one of the most important defense re- 
actions can lose its biological purposefulness and can become dangerous 
as was found in our experiment in which 3 of 10 animals died. 
The 
experimental animais reacted quite differently to the same stress. 
Their eosinophil count did not rise but even fell to the same extent. 
It 
‘must be assumed that in this case there was no insufficiency of the ad- 
renals in spite of the severe stress. 
In view of the results obtained 
by one of us (V. Petkov) which have shown that Ginseng increases the 
reactivity of the cerebro-cortical cells (as can be seen from improved 
cortical functions, such as excitation, inhibition and mobility), we 
consider it very likely that the effect of Ginseng on the adrenal cortex 
is of.neurogenic origin. 
This makes it appear that Ginseng may facili- 
tate the adaptation of adrenal cortical function to the needs of the or- 
ganism under changing conditions. Our discovery of a stimulating 
action of Ginseng on glycocorticoid production throws light on its anti- 
inflammatory and anti-exudative effects which have been observed by 
other investigators. --Authors. 
aT 
n 
111661. GOLIKOV, P. P. O viiyanii kalozanta indiiskogo i zhen’- 
shenya na prodolzhitel’nost’ zhizni belykh myshei pri strikhninnoi in- 
toksikatsii. 
[The effect of Indian trumpet flower [Oroxylon-(Caiosanthu. 
D] and 
ginseng 
on the duration of life in white mice with strychnine 
.| 
In: Materialy k izucheniyu zhen’shenya i drugikh lekarst- 
)| 
 vennykh sredstv Dal’nego Vostoka. 
[Information for a study of ginseng 
}| 
_ 
and other drugs of the Soviet Far East.] Vladivostok. 
7. 279-281. 
1966. From: REF ZH OTD VYP FARMAKOL KHIMIOTER SREDSTVA 
TOKSIKOL, 1967, No. 3.54.503. 
(Translation)--Convulsions were cause” 
in male mice by the intraperitoneal injection of strychnine. 
One hour 
30 min. before the injection of strychnine, the mice were injected with 
an alcoholic or alcohol-free extract of ginseng root or of the root of the 
Indian trumpetflower. 
Extracts of ginseng and trumpetflower (without 
alcohol) increased the duration of life in animals injected with the LD 
of strychnine. 
The effect of the extracts increased with the dosage of 
them. 
The prophylactic administration of alcohol or of an alcoholic 
extract of trumpet-flower prevented the death of mice from the LD of 
strychnine. 
The alcoholic extract of ginseng prevented the death of 50% 
of the mice given an LD of strychnine. 
In almost all the surviving mice 
gat 
$3003 
Denver Dan says we have three (count them) con- 
“sciousness centers; our belly, where it all starts, our throat, 
where our center rises to as we begin to talk to ourselves, 
and our third eye. 
The third eye is what we're shooting 
for. That throat thing, though, is a bitch to leave behind. 
As your head goes through its secret schemings your poor 
throat is trying to keep up with the back orders. A mantra 
will quiet the scheming, which is of course the seat of the 
problem, but while waiting for your mantra to cut in 
sometimes 
a sip of something 
soothing 
will 
cool the 
poor bastards in the engine room who are trying to keep 
up with commands the bridge doesn’t even realize it is 
sending out. 
| like a little peppermint schnapps over 
ice. 
trouble with that sweet stuff, though, 
seems to leave you thirsty. 
The 
is that it always 
| wonder. 
Olt 
Walking across the lush Stanford Golf Course, past 
the riding stables and the thoroughbreds loafing in luxury; 
! saw this foursome of longhairs and thought, “It isn’t 
getting high you're against, Cleaver: it’s playing golf! 
Tell 
you what: 
you drop a little acid and | swear | will never 
play another game of golf until Bobby Seale is out of 
jail, Weyerhaeuser 
is out of the McKenzie 
River and 
America 
is out 
of Viet Nam. 
There 
is a season 
for’ 
every purpose under Heaven, you are saying, and this is 
not the season 
to work on our putting. 
I'll shake to 
that.’ 
me 
Ne 
ite 
Ha ath 
' iM 
a 
13 
