LAW AS A REVOLUTIONARY TOOL 
by 
Jim Wolpman 
One way to see it is in the good case, the good case. 
On a scale of one to ten, ten. 
It’s all there; the rest: 
7,5, 
maybe 2 have some of it so it’s instructive besides, 10 is. 
It’s known around these days as the political case, but 
that’s only part of it so it won't be called that here. 
The 
fact is, we'll play that down because it’s so played up. 
. 
. 
that ought to make it come out about right in the end. 
The whole thing--case and all--could be talked of as a 
tool, 
but 
there 
is a product there--a 
production--that 
shouldn’t be missed. 
| mean number 10 can stand on its 
own two feet, let someone else use it. Here the lawyer is 
the tool; he /s the law, at least a big part of it. Which is to 
say, what he does goes a long way toward making the law 
whatever it is. 
He’s other things. too, like a human being. 
That does thicken the plot and will have to be dealt with. 
In fact, that might just be what he is or should be doing all 
the while: being human. 
To be, a case has first to be recognized, and recog- 
nition comes hard. 
It’s easy to say and see in an abstracted 
way how wrong and rotten what's going on is, but to see 
each strand of the spider’s web, the particular web which 
surely caught this particular person, that’s much harder. 
Here the client knows better than the lawyer: 
It’s his life 
and the web was invented just for that life. 
It’s all there, 
the whole thing, every thread of it. 
You know those books from when you were a kid, 
the kind with dots and numbers, you drew lines from dot 
to dot following the numbers and eventually a picture 
came. 
That's one thing that can be done. 
Anything as 
fucked as what’s going on now, is really ugly and awful, 
and the harder 
it tries to hide that ugliness, which it 
spends more and more time doing, the more monstrous 
it becomes. 
In a good case you can pick out all those dots 
and give each a number, then slowly and carefully guide 
the hand that holds the pencil. 
See the monster... 
Another thing it'll do is feed on itself. 
It’s getting 
pretty paranoid these days, more and more insatiable, and a 
little dumber. 
Or, as they say, contradictions are emerging. 
Just a little honey on the tail. (There is a temptation here: 
watch out if you enjoy watching.) 
Now a courtroom will only hold so much. The pri- 
mary job of the bailiff and the law of evidence is to keep 
too much from happening. ‘We don’t want any of that 
in here.” 
But if you fill it up softly, stealthily, using the 
rules of evidence like the zen rules they are, you can fill it 
22 
Photo by John Manos 
