yet more 
TOOLS FROM MY 
i 
CHEST 
Cleaver’s insights and standpoints and metaphors are 
of the sort born of long, hard and unselfish thinking. This 
sense of distillation has been absent in his taped communi- 
ques and | hope he thinks some more and writes some 
more; 
it’s hard to communicate through the soap opera- 
oriented media. 
SOUL ON ICE cuts across very clean. 
The Allegory 
of the Black Eunuchs 
I sat down to eat my beans at a table for four with two of 
my contemporaries: young, strong, superlative Black Eu- 
nuchs in the prime. Soon after we were seated, an old fat 
Lazarus, with sleek, grayish hair that had been artificially 
straightened and a jolly, ebullient smile which made him re- 
semble a chocolate Santa Claus, invited himself over to our 
table and sat down in the chair opposite me. I exchanged 
glances with my contemporaries. Ironical smiles lit our 
black faces, while an intenser fire blazed in our eyes as we 
scrutinized this Lazarus interloper. 
A few minutes passed in silence. 
My contemporaries and I, we had a thing going about 
elderly Negroes like this one sitting opposite from me. 
There was something in his style, the way he carried him- 
self, that we held in contempt. We had him written down as 
an Uncle Tom—not that we had ever seen him buck danc- 
ing or licking the white man’s boots, but we knew that black 
rebels his age do not walk the streets in America: they were 
either dead, in prison, or in exile in another country. Or 
else, and this is how we sized this one up, they had turned 
into a type of fake that proliferates in the Negro ghetto. Not 
a passive resister (and he wasn’t non-violent), he was death 
on another black, and although the white man had ripped 
off his whole existence, his whole race, he was always talk- 
ing about what he would do if the white man ever did some- 
thing to him personally. If talk alone could overthrow a 
government he would be in power. From a certain point of 
view we hated this black, but in a subtle way we were fasci- 
nated by the curious terms at which he had arrived with the 
world. 
Just then, and with no apparent provocation, the young 
Eunuch on my left said, pounding his fist on the table for 
emphasis, “Old Lazarus, why come you’re not dead?” 
3 
“What?” asked the Infidel, startled more by the sudden- 
ness of the question and the menacing tone in which it was 
hurled at him than by the question itself. (After all, his en- 
tire generation was being asked the same question in a mil- 
lion different guises: Charlie Parker asked Lester Young, 
_ 
Dizzy Gillespie asked Louis Armstrong, Mao. Tse-tung 
asked Chiang Kai-shek, Fidel Castro asked Batista, Mal- 
colm X asked Martin Luther King, Robert F. Williams 
asked Roy Wilkins, Norman Mailer asked the Totalitarian 
Squares.) The question sank in slowly, and as it did his 
Santa Claus smile dissolved, with a hint of panic, into a 
twitch at the left corner of his fat mouth. His dark, beady 
eyes darted from face to face. 
“I asked you why aren’t you dead?” repeated the Eunuch 
on my left. 
‘ 
“Why should I be dead? I don’t under—” 
“Tf you had laid down your life.” the Eunuch cut him off, 
“at least we could respect you. At least we could say you 
were a: man 
grave as a sign, a standard, with pride—w:ith reverence! But 
a great man. At least we could point to your 
no, you cringing cunctator, you dared to cling to your mis- 
erable life, to grow old and gray and fat and funky!” The 
Accuser broke off and started eating his beans with a ven- 
geance, as though each bean were a white man, and he 
downed them by the spoonful. 
“What’s wrong with this cat today?” asked the Accused, 
his face screwed up in nervous bafflement. 
“He’s sick,” I offered, to see how the Infidel would take 
it. 
“He must be sick,” said the Accused, stirring his coffee 
uncertainly. “All this stupid talk about death and dying.” 
“Yes, I’m sick!” erupted the Accuser, almost choking, 
talking through his beans. ‘“‘You make me sick, Methuselah! 
What are you trying to do, win a longevity contest? How 
did you get that gray hair—how did you manage to sur- 
vive? Yeah. I’m sick, sick, sick!” 
“I'm sick, too,” said the Eunuch on my right, speaking 
for the first time. “I’m sick, sick, sick!” 
“Tm sick, too,” I said. 
“What’s the name of this game?” asked Lazarus, trying 
to inject a note of levity, on the sly. “This is a new one on 
me.” 
It was a cruel thing we were doing and we knew it be- 
cause we had done it before to others. In one sense we were 
- only playing with him, probing him, examining him, study- 
ing him, but on another level we were deadly serious. The 
Lazarus, detecting the ambiguity, was confused. 
“Do you know the difference between a gorilla and a 
guerrilla?” the Eunuch on my right asked the Accused. 
The Accused appeared to be contemplating an answer. 
“Tl make it easy for you,” the Eunuch said. “You're a 
gorilla, and a guergilla is everything you are not.” 
The Accused opened his mouth to reply, but the Eunuch 
