The Last of the Mountain Men 
sylvan hart lives on the river of no return, 
the north fork of the salmon in idaho, 
he’s been there a few decades. 
he builds his own tools, 
grows and hunts his own food, 
wears buckskin, 
has a college degree, 
and built a bomb shelter. 
harold peterson went to visit sylvan hart, 
and wrote this book about him. 
a couple of friends of mine went to visit sylvan hart, 
to make a film of him. turns out they didn’t like him. 
that shouldn't say anything about the book. 
i'm hoping sylvan hart isn’t the last of the mountain men. 
-j.d. 
The Last of the Mountain Men 
THE LASTor 
THe 
Harold Peterson 
MOUNTAIN MEN 
— 
1969; 156 pp. 
plat 
tia oe 
$0.95 postpaid 
ay a 
from: 
aa 
Tower Publications 
» 
i ay 
c/o Macfadden—Bartell 
7 \4 
205 E. 42nd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The guns with which Buckskin bags his trophies, trinkets, and 
trousers have aroused considerably more avarice than that. One 
handmade flintlock rifle, a particularly enviable product of loving 
craftsmanship, so excited a wealthy Los Angeles businessman that 
he offered $500 for it. ‘’It’s not for sale,’ Bill told him. The rich 
Angeleno thought a moment, offered $750. 
‘‘It's not for sale,” 
Bill repeated firmly. By this time, the man, used to having his 
money count, was sorely vexed. “$1,000,"" he snapped. 
“It’s not 
worth it, but | want that rifle.”” 
“’It’s not for sale,” 
Bill said, as 
calmly as before. The Angeleno left in a terrible temper. A week 
later he-was back with a blank check. 
‘Fill it out for whatever you 
want,” he barked. 
‘It’s not for sale,” said Bill. “Damn it,” said the 
man. “You need the money. You do use‘money, don’t you?” ‘’No,” 
said Bill. ‘‘Not where | live.” 
The rifle in question has a beautifully hand-bored, hand-rifled 
barrel, a mechanism with double cock and double-set trigger, and an 
ornately carved moutain mahogany stock. Bored to .45 caliber, the 
barrel is Swedish jackhammer carbon steel, which he had sent in to 
him. 
Le 
a. 
a? 
Sylvan’s pole bridge, pinned precariously to the sheer face of a cliff 
high above the roiling River of No Return, constitutes the only 
path to the outside world. 
Although accurately described by Buckskin as ‘a rotating helix 
drive by fingers on a headblock nailed to a table top,"’ the machine 
used to make that rifle scarcely seems sophisticated enough to un- 
cork a pop gun. As for the handmade “rifling saw’’ which cuts the 
actual groove, that looks like nothing so much as a half-inch-long 
bit of scrap metal. Yet if Sylvan, looking down the barrel, can 
find a flaw, no one else can, and the rifle shoots with deadly 
accuracy. 
‘‘It's nothing but muscle power,’’ Sylvan says, ‘but | 
really lay into it. That cutter comes out of there smoking.” 
With its light, steady touch, the firing mechanism is no less 
astonishing. ‘The interesting part is a pitiful little thing calleda 
detent,’ Sylvan explains, taking a listener's comprehension for 
granted. 
“‘It causes the sear to ride over the half-cock notch in the 
tumbler.” 
.no” 
wild Aaa 
Each of these samples of his innumerable hammers, scrapers, 
punches, awls, adzes, gouges, and other implements was hand- 
made by Hart. 
Smoother than rosewood, the stock was simply blackened with 
sulfuric acid and rubbed to its lustrous deep brown finish by 
rubbing with the plam of the hand. 
It's carvings variously depict an 
old mountain sheep resting its heavy horns on the ground while 
drinking, two rams fighting, and the exact defensive deployment of 
a band of bighorns being attacked by eagles. 
“| just make one as | need it, but | don’t like to spend less’n a year 
making a rifle,’’ Hart said, opening the patch button in the stock 
to show the orange flicker feathers inside. They are used to flick 
dust and lint out of the mechanism. 
pre 
in FORM 
_one of the worst problems that we 
(the MOVEMENT if you prefer) 
(the Back-To-The-Land Movement, if you prefer) 
thave is the cost of land 
if you want to stay here 
(the United States of America) 
land on Oahuis selling for five bucks 
a square foot, 
land in Montana, 
about two hundred an acre, 
in small pieces, 
if you are lucky. 
preintorm gets past that bother 
by advocating that we forget that 
people, 
the governments, 
own land, 
and, 
just go live somewhere, 
bit by bit, 
dig a tunnel, 
get ready to move soon, 
figure on moving soon, 
forget, 
use, 
and live, 
freely. 
its kinda hard to say 
if these people will be there, 
but if they are: 
~jd 
pre 
cm FORM 
frowst iessuas: $2.00 
fromm: 
Prefionnn 
Box 14h 
» Giemedialie,, Caliifionmia SNZOD 
256==.. 
Mountaineering: The Freedom of the Hills 
By far the most complete and sensitive treatment of 
mountaineering available. Oriented around Pacific Northwest 
mountaineering, where trails often end miles before the 
peaks begin, it is particularly relevant to wilderness 
camping and travel. [t is much more than a book on how 
to climb. Reflects several generations of respectful 
relationship with mountains. If you move (or sit) where 
there are trees, rocks, snow and brush, it speaks to your 
terrain. One limitation: little about dry, arid areas— 
glaciers are the local functional equivalent of deserts. 
[Reviewed by Michael Templeton. 
Suggested by everybody.] 
Mountaineering: 
ed. Harvey Manning 
1960, 1967; 485 pp. 
$7.50 postpaid 
from: 
The Mountaineers 
P. O. Box 122 
Seatlle, Wash. 98111 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
Mattresses often give a chill sleep on snow due to interior convection 
currents, and with age they develop.Jeaks that let the sleeper down in 
the middle of the night. Convection can be reduced by inserting a 
few ounces of down; in this case a filter is needed on the inlet and the 
mattress must not be blown up by mouth because of the moisture 
thus introduced. Sheets of foam plastic are superior in every respect 
except their incompressibility and consequent bulkiness. 
in recent years many a mountaineer has developed the habit or 
hobby of not only making his own passage invisible but of 
spending extra effort to obliterate evidence of his predecessors— 
most of whom were just ignorant and thoughtless. 
If a skirmish with brush must be accepted there is no technique at 
all. Brushfighting is not a diversion for civilized, gentle folk. One 
cannot afford charity toward slide alder or-devil’s club; one must 
hate and punish and kill when:possible. 
The irregularity of a mountain range tends to break up a front, 
especially the narrow turbulence zone of’a cold one. 
Instead of 
advancing in a solid line it may surge forward up a deep valley 
while held stationary by a high massif, this‘bulge perhaps being 
attacked by flanking air—--little squalls breaking off and wandering 
about apparently at random. 
A party on one peak may experience 
lightning, hail, driving snow, pouring rain, and calm sunshine all 
within the space of an hour. On a nearby peak another party may 
spend the entire day-undisturbed'by so much as a drop of rain, 
using.up all their camera film shooting the superb cloud structures. 
The Freedom of the Hills 
The quest of the mountaineer, in simplest terms, is for the freedom 
of the hills, to be fully at home in the high wilderness with no 
barriers he cannot pass, no dangers he cannot avoid. 
COOKING AND EATING UTENSILS 
The least-expensive cooking utensils are tin cans in various sizes, 
junked (at home, not in the mountains) when rusty. Aluminum 
utensils cost a little more but are more durable. 
Bails are desirable 
for suspending pots over the fire, and lids to keep ashes out and 
steam in. Aluminum foil is versatile beyond description, under 
adept manipulation becoming a frying pan, oven for baking foods 
in a bed of coals, reflector oven for biscuits, and if need:be even 
a cup or a pot. 
BREAKFAST 
If the climb begins in the middle of the night, breakfast is merely the 
first installment-of lunch. A tiny. can of fruit cocktail, or a doughnut 
and.a swallow of milk, are typical menus. Some climbers are convinced 
their legs won't work without hot food; their neurosis can be quickly 
pampered with:instant cereal or cocoa cooked by chemical fire. 
LUNCH 
As.soon as breakfast is completed the climber:commences lunch, 
which he continues to:eat as:tong as he'is awake, stopping briefly 
for supper. 
He has food in his. rucksack and knick-knacks in his 
pockets, main courses for the summit lunch, nibbles for rest-stops, 
and sweets to suck while walking. 
