salth officials, and gives good information on 
-type waste disposal, as well as water-carried 
(5 gallons each flush). 
complete information we've seen on building a 
» 
generator is in the book Composting, which 
whole chapter to the subject. Manure and 
laced in a sealed tank, and the anaerobic decom- 
roduces methane gas, which can be used for 
ooking, lighting, and to power small engines.. 
deals with the reclamation and recycling of 
explains the decomposition of organic matter, 
es the importance of sanitation in the process. 
[Suggested by Craige Schensted] 
iter systems 
and couldn't find.one. Water Supply for 
ral Areas and Small Communities was just what / was 
ing for. Excellent information on wells, pumps, 
ution systems, developed springs, and treatment. 
World Health Organization publishes this book and 
tly directs it toward underdeveloped areas. Some 
eir reasons for not recommending certain methods 
d equipment for outlying areas seem to me to be 
sable to developed areas. For instance, treatment 
is 
recommended only as a last resort because of the 
cessity for trained operators and-often expensive 
ment. They have found many cases of impure water 
mmmunities where treatment was supposedly taking 
ce, but for one reason or another, wasn’t happening. 
ften, no one worries about water pollution if the water 
is 
being treated. 
Many of the methods and equipment described are not 
ch used in the U. S. There is very good information 
on low cost wells. Hand dug, drive point, and jetted. 
0 information on hand pumps. 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
SKETCH OF MANURE GAS PLANT WITH LATRINES 
1e use Of anaerobic digestion of organic waste materials, such as 
‘m manure, litter, garbage, and night-soil, accompanied by the 
sovery of methane fuel, has been an important development in 
| sanitation during the past 10 to 15 years. This development 
sically an extension of the anaerobic process for sludge diges- 
tion used in municipal sewage treatment to small digestion-tank 
installations on farms. These farm plants comprise one or more 
all digesters and a gas-holder. Manure and other wastes are 
id in a tank which is sealed from atmospheric oxygen, and 
Permitted to digest anaerobically. The methane gas, which 
‘oduced during the anaerobic decomposition of the carbon- 
S materials, is collected in the gas-holder for use as fuel for 
- cooking, lighting, refrigeration, and heating, and for other domestic 
_ 
or agricu|tural purposes, such as providing power for small engines. 
Manhole for looding 
Thick coat of 
cement-sond-lime plaster 
Ld 
CROSS-SECTION OF INDIVIDUAL DIGESTER UNIT 
‘Water & Sanitation 
| 
Land Use 
: pas 
. 
mn 
; 
7 
to 
years ago, | spent some time looking fora good book 
oe a 
ey 
Loe, 
et. 
~ 
PEOPLE 
Se 
Por 
Mes 
eee 
Su 
bje 
ealth & Sanitation or Sanitation & Health 
It is rapidly becoming clear that if we do not pay 
— 
attention to some basic facts about health & its 
relation to sanitation we are going to have some 
problems. 
These problems wiil not/cannot & won’t 
' go away. Neither can we. 
There is no where to go. 
People thru out time/space have all ways had to deal 
with these problems. 
SO 
People eat food which maintains body which rejects 
what it can’t use as waste. 
What to do with it 
OR 
The easiest way is to leave it where you laid it. Prob- 
lem: someone else has to cope. Don’t pass your 
load on. 
We are all one. 
What’s yours is mine. An 
other easy is to put it in the river/stream/ditch. 
You're still passing on your load. Remember water 
equals life. Who wants to drink water with yr. load 
init. 
There is a good solution: put it in the ground. 
Give it back to mother nature; she can use it 
(Nitrogen, etc. ). 
[Part of a notice from Lama Foundation by Steve Durkee] 
PXERET\ DISPOSAL 
3 
FO RURAL 
AREAS AND 
2 
SMALL. COMMENTITES 
Composting 
Harold B. Gotaas 
1956; 205 pp. 
$5.00 postpaid 
Excreta Disposal for Rural Areas and: Small Communities 
E. G. Wagner & J. N. Lanoix 
P. 
1958; 187 pp. 
$5.00 postpaid 
Water SaEPty for Rural Areas and Small Communities 
E. G. Wagner & J. N. Lanoix 
1959; 340 pp. 
$6.75 postpaid 
all three from: 
The American Public Health Association 
1740 Broadway 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A reasonably safe way for a villager to prepare excreta for use as 
fertilizer is for him to compost it in a privy pit. After the required 
period of,composting, the pit can be emptied, thus eliminating 
the handling of the raw excreta. 
... 
1. Dig a.pit of required size, the bottom of which should always be~ 
above ground-water level. 
2. Before the slab is placed, cover the bottom 50 cm (20 in.) of the 
pit with grass cuttings, fine leaves, garbage, paper, etc.; but allow no 
rubbish such as metal cans, glass bottles; or simiiar materials to be 
deposited therein. 
3. Place slab, and complete superstructure, keeping in mind that 
they will both be moved periodically to another site. 
4. In addition to depositing human:excrement, throw the daily 
garbage into the pit, along with cow, horse, sheep, chicken, and 
pig manure, as well as urine-soaked earth or straw. The latter 
materials are important, as urine is rich in nitrogen, an essential 
plant nutrient. 
5. About once a week throw a few kilograms of grass clippings and 
fine-texture leaves into the pit. After some experimentation, one can 
arrive at a pit mixture which will provide a good fertilizer. 
6. When the pit’s contents reach a level of 50 cm (20 in.) below 
ground, a new pit is dug 1.50-2 m (5-6.5 ft) away (more if desired), 
and the superstructure and slab are moved over it. The first pit is 
leveled, finally, with 15 cm (6 in.) of grass clippings and leaves, and 
the top 35 cm (14 in.) with well-tamped earth. 
7. When the second pit is filled as indicated above, the first pit is 
uncovered and the compost removed. 
{t should 
be stable, and will 
provide a good fertilizer-which can be applied immediately to the 
fields or stored. 
.. 
. 
How to get rid of it 
A _. 
Protective drainage ditch to keep drainage water a safe distance:from spring 
B 
-- Original slope and ground line 
C -- Screened outlet pipe : can discharge freely or be piped to village or residence 
wot) 
Springs can offer an economical and safe source of water, 
A thorough search should 
be made for signs of ground-water outcropping. 
Springs that can be piped to the user by 
\ 
gravity offer an excellent solution, 
Rainfall variation may influence the yield, so dry- 
weather flow should be checked. 
s 
Hand-dug wells naturally have certain limitations. While successful 
wells have been sunk in special circumstances to depths of over 120m 
(400 ft), half that distance is usually considered the limit of practical 
sinking. 
e 
The first consideration, then, in designing a well is its diameter; 
neglecting for the moment large-diameter wells built for special 
purposes, the size of a completed well represents a compromise 
between economic and practical considerations. 
It has been found 
that the cost of a lined well varies almost exactly with its diameter, 
taking into account the increased thickness of lining necessary in a 
larger well. The minimum diameter is limited by the room available 
— 
for aman or men to work; experiments show that a diameter of about 
1m (3% ft) is necessary for one man and about 1.3 m (4% ft) for 
two men. 
It has been found that the efficiency of two sinkers 
working together is more than twice that of a single man, and con- 
sequently a 1.3-m (4%-ft) diameter is a convenient standard 
size. 
Other considerations affecting this decision are the greater natural 
ventilation of the larger hole, the more efficient size of the kibbles 
(hoisting buckets) and other equipment which can be used in it, 
the additional room for concreting operations and insertion of 
caisson rings, and the possibility of using orange-peel grabs if 
desired. On the other hand, an increase in diameter beyond 1.3m 
(4% ft) does not appear to give any great constructional advantages. 
The quantity of water from a spring can very often be substantially 
increased by digging out the area around the spring down to an 
impervious layer to remove silt, decomposed rock, and other rock 
fragments and mineral matter (usually calcium carbonate) some- 
times deposited by the emerging ground water. 
In doing this, 
particular care should be taken, especially in fissured limestone 
areas, to avoid disturbing underground formations to the extent 
that the spring is deflected in another direction or into other 
fissures. 
e 
Energy which Nature has provided, such as the wind, should be 
taken advantage of whenever possible. 
In many Northern European 
and Western Hemisphere countries, wind energy is used for pumping 
water for farms, homes, and small communities. This method is. 
excellent for obtaining a steady flow of water from a well ata 
very low cost. 
|
For proper operation, the following conditions must be met: 
|
(1) winds of more than 8 km per hour during at least 60% of 
the time; 
(2) available windmill equipment; 
(3) wells that can be pumped for many hours’ duration each day; 
— 
|
(4) storage capacity of three days’ supply (or more) to take’ 
advantage of long pumping periods and to provide for calm 
periods when there is no wind; 
(5) clear sweep of wind to the windmill. This can be.obtained 
by the use of a tower to raise the windmill 4.5-6 m (15 20 ft) 
or more above the surrounding obstacles. 
Water Supply 
The Canadian Department of National Health and 
Welfare puts out a free simple book on sanitation, intended 
for remote northern areas. 
It has good clear diagrams of 
septic tanks, privies, and chemical toilets. 
There is also. 
information on heating, lighting, water supply, and 
sanitation. 
Funky. 
* 
2) MN EARTH COVER OVER SEPTIC TAME 
SEPTIC TANK SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM 
Sanitation Manual for Isolated Regions. 
Before applying or recommending this method in a rural area where 
1967; 64'pp. 
_ it is not familiar, it is desirable to try it first on a pilot scale under 
; 
. 
Penees 
E 
& 
x 
adequate control in order to determine the proper operating schedale » 
free 
bia, 
“ 
and materials suitable and available in the area under consideration. ~ 
:
The collaboration of agricultural officials and of local leaders among 
from: 
the farmers 
of the area is necessary. 
Department of:National Health and.Welfare 
Excreta Disposal 
Ottawa,.Ontario, CANADA - 
ro. 
tpi 
wa es eae 
‘ 
- 
cy 4 
" 
a 
exer 
- 
* 
* 
a 
i 
Pie! 
co. 
