— 
a 
eS 
History (continued) 
About this time Lois and | started living in the store. Joe and 
Annie and |, with editorial help from Lloyd Kahn, did the Spring 
69 CATALOG production amid the busy din of the store, a bad 
mistake. 
The CATALOG was twice as big and a dollar cheaper. 
To clear my head after production | hitchhiked to New Mexico 
for what turned out to be the Great Bus Race (p 245). Joe and 
Annie also headed for the desert, pending rendezvous in 
Albuquerque for the July Supplement production. 
You should know that all this time Portola Institute was going 
through continual interesting changes that someone else is going 
to have to write about. Dick Raymond did one especially nice 
thing for us: he protected us from the vicissitudes. 
Store and mailorder business was gradually picking up, so we hired 
Hal Hershey, a friend of the Duckworths who had worked in 
bookstores. We also hired Diana Shugart, a close buddy of Lois’ 
and mine. At the store we had a chart on the wall that showed 
our income and expenses for each month. 
The income was gradually 
catching up. 
While we were having a good July production at Steve and Holly 
Baer’s house in Albuquerque, Hal and Diana were starting to face 
@ heavy current in Menlo Park (“52 subscriptions today!”). Philip 
Morrison had written kindly of us in the June 69 Scientific 
American. We were being mentioned in a lot of underground papers 
such as the East Village Other. And then Nicholas von Hoffman 
wrote a full piece on the CATALOG that got syndicated all over 
the U.S. We were caught. We were famous. 
(One interesting note. Of all the press notices we eventually got, 
fromTime and Vogue to Hotcha!— 
in Germany— 
to the big article 
in Esquire, nothing had the business impact of one tiny mention 
in “Uncle Ben Sez” in the Detroit Free Press, where some reader 
asked, “How do we start a farm?” and Uncle Ben printed our 
address. 
We got hundreds and hundreds of subscriptions from that.) 
Hal and Diana hired more people. 
Deposits at the bank were more 
frequent: the bank officers got more polite. 
in September Joe and | returned to Ortega garage to work on the 
September Supplement. Annie had stayed on at Lama, so we hired 
a Kelly Girl to do the typing. As | was driving up the hill to work 
one day it suddenly hit me that | didn’t want to. Instead of golden 
opportunity the publication was becoming a grim chore. 
| 
considered the alternatives of taking my medicine like a good boy 
or setting about passing on my job to somebody else. 
I’m sure | 
Modern Business Forms 
A good source of cheap, functional business stationery, 
note-o-grams, address labels, business notebooks, etc. 
Catalog free. 
—SB 
The Drawing Board, Inc. 
256 Regal Row 
Dallas, Texas 75221 
YOUR COMPANY NAME 
TOUS ADOMEES 
+ CITY. STATE. ZIP COOK . TELEPMONE HUMOER 
Richard Raymond, President of Portola Institute 
sighed unhappily. And then this other notion glimmered. Keep the 
Job, finish the original assignment, and then stop. Stop a success 
and see what happens. Experiment going as well as coming. 
We printed in the September 69 Supplement that we would cease 
publication with a big CATALOG in Spring 71. 
Meanwhile business was still growing. The morning mail was a 
daily heavy Santa Claus bag. We hited Tracy McCallum, Peter 
Ratner, Mary McCabe (a bit of uptown glamour amid the Hair), 
and a guy named Fred Richardson who had amazing talent for 
handling the world’s hardware. 
Bernie Sproch and Megan Raymond 
came in periodically to handle our increasing load of filing and 
flyer-mailing and other chores. We were having group /unch at the 
store by now, Lois and Diana dishing it up. 
! actually thought | could fit LIFERAFT EARTH (p. 35) in 
between the September Supplement and the fall CATALOG. 
Setting up the event was even harder than production. 
Then 
starving for a week was no way to recuperate. Dumb. 
! went from the LIFERAFT straight into Fall CATALOG 
production. We were late, so we had to do it in two weeks. 
Fred 
was going to take over the camera. 
We had a hot new typist, Cappy 
McClure. 
We had a big new Stat-King that wasn’t worth it. Joe 
brought in his brother Jay to double our layout speed. We worked 
80 hours a week. We got to the printer on time. 
Then Christmas was on us like a cat on a mouse. Everybody was 
overloaded at the store. 
In January we had another burst of 
hiring, practically whoever came in the door. 
Les Rosen the book- 
keeping ex-Marine, John Clark, Russell Bass, Jerry Fihn, Alan 
Burton, Leslie Acoca, the booklover Laura Besserman. Pam Smith 
was cooking lunch. When Tracy left to Canada, Pam’s husband JD 
came in as manager. JD instituted a fine addition to the Storefront— 
a Free Box (“take or leave”). Everybody should have one; they 
really get used. 
About this time | went over some edge. Minor tasks became in- 
surmountable obstacles. 
The thought of another production filled 
me with hopeless dread. 
| couldn’t walk right. 
It was a nervous 
breakdown, garden variety. 
|’d never had one before so | thought | 
was dying, which stirred up a snowflurry of phobias that took more 
than a year to disperse. 
I’m not happy to mention this, but it seems 
an important part of the bookkeeping we’re doing here. 
/n retrospect what | particularly appreciate was Dick Raymond’s 
help and comfort, which was none at all. He’s an unusually merciful 
soul. 
He said out loud to Esquire, “You have to let people have 
their own nervous breakdowns.” Correct. 
7 
(continued) 
S ound Criticism 
What in the Hell is the Big Idea, anyway, threatening to cease 
publication of the Whole Earth Catalog?!! Why, you characters have 
hardley even started! 
What if 
all the telephone companies suddenly 
— 
Fidelity Executive 
A good source of cheap, functional cardboard files and bins. 
Also other office equipment. 
Fidelity Products Co. 
705 Pennsylvania Ave. So. 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55426 
Every noon, volleyball at the store. 
decided to stop printing the yellow pages next year? What if 
Sweets suddenly decided they'd stop updating those huge catalogs 
each year or so? Where would we be? And don’t put forth the 
argument that “Well, we’d probably be better off because somebody’d 
probably start a new Yellow Pages that would probably be better than 
the last ones...” because only You know how much Money, Time, 
Effort, Logistics, B.S., and Tears are required to compile and operate 
such an Information Processing Centre— and now that you've got 
the first touch of momentum in the Machine you’re going to turn it 
off and like some child of itinerant interests create some new play- 
thing to amuse yourselves and depress a lot of the rest of your 
followers because just as we get the hang of it and start Magnifying 
your Outer Ripples you'll Cop Out on us. If there was ever an Evil 
Plan, 
a commitment to Irresponsible Action, it’s the decision to 
cease publication of the Catalog in 1971 which MR Brand had the 
audacity to suggest in a recent interview with TIME Magazine. 
What 
if Mother said after 3 months or so of Carrying The Weight: 
“Well, 
if Baby can’t go it on his own from here I haven’t been much use—!” 
But as I hope You have noticed, really responsible mothers hang on 
for at least 9 months if not 15 yearsand then, knowing when to 
shut up, they do it. 
I don’t know how much it’s coming through to you guys yet or not 
but your not just titillating the Folks down on The Farm— you've 
pioneered a whole new concept in Information selection and 
distribution: 
“The Catalog With A Soul.” And as you might gather 
from your sales increases over the last few issues there are a hell of 
a lot of other eyes gomming your rags. For example, there isn’t a 
single school (particularly those tied up old design schools) that 
isn’t absolutely fertile ground for you to pitch your Circus on. ..! 
The kind of Design Mentality which in your format and attitude 
you ve begun to succeed in showing is possible and enviable on 
nearly everybody’s scale— and the kind of Gospel of Self-Reliance 
en famille you've preached is so goddamned vital you just can’t 
give up without realizing the Full Implications 
, the Total 
Possibilities of the Little Bomb you've set off. 
If you had the nerve to callit The Whole Earth Catalog, why the 
hell isn’t It going to BE a WHOLE EARTH CATALOG-— a World 
Source with a World circulation, a World Exposure, a World of 
Contributors (have you considered the prospect of a WEC in every 
U.S. Embassy as a start)— A World Institution; Sears and Roebuck 
did it with a much smaller heart— and you don’t even have to stock 
the merchandise! Here I am in Soggy Olde England and I’ve sold 
the Catalog to the First Five people I’ve shown it to except they 
query “Where can I get these goodies in England?” 
1971 is not the year for you to fold up; 1971 is the year for you 
to start a New Growth Phase— to show that your concern is even more 
generous, even more thought-out than you'd have us believe at the 
moment. How about that: 
twice a year an Expanding Universe in 
my mail box! What New Forms can the Whole Earth Catalog take 
on? Maybe a separate edition for each major category of information, 
sources, and items as reviewers and contributors expand the range. 
Or how about a Telex station at WEC so that the backlog of old 
information from old issues and reviews which will surely pile up 
at an astounding rate could be tapped by a subscriber anywhere in 
the World when he needs source material and, as well, reviewers 
might click in a review when the P.O. eventually proves too slow. 
The Supplements: 
in addition to the sort of Interface they are now, 
could continue to be sort of Reporters-At-Large for us Lookers 
and Builders but on a much Broader Scale, reaching beyond the 
Western United States and extending our knowledge of Process/ 
Ideas by connecting up with other Farmers of the World. (You 
know that the first European Conference on The Environment was 
just held in Strassbourg?) 
You see, of course, it is just as important that you publish the 
Catalog as what you put in IT— 
you are a vital Priority Distillery: 
Education, Tools, and Appliances for Self-Reliance and you 
document that very process of distillation thereby endorsing Design 
as one entire side of the Evolutionary Coin. Now, as never before, 
because of Extraordinary Devices, one man’s Special Sight can be 
shared by many more who see a little better because of his efforts; 
in our struggle to become 
ever less Blind, all the Vehicles which 
bring the Possibilities of these Special Sights to us are like much 
needed lenses or Aids: 
extra eyes and extra ears to help us make 
our Way in the Dark. As any designer knows— you cut off the 
Source, the Inspirator— 
and you cripple the Product, you trip up 
the Effort. 
So, goddamnit, GROW UP. (or at least justify your suicide.) 
Very Sincereley Yours, 
Gregory Groth Jacobs 
London 
