flower & Wild Tree Seeds. Gardeners and food growers— 
nd maybe hunters and gatherers too—should check out 
lyde Robin’s seed catalog. It offers not only wildflowers, 
egetables, plus occasional information on their culture, 
pearance, uses, etc. 
he Special Roadside Mixture grows in places where you 
ought only weeds would, and makes a really gaudy show 
in early Summer. After it has bloomed you cut it all down 
to the ground and the California poppies grow back and 
flower again. Grow catnip and turn your cats on—it grows 
_ easily from seed but you have to start the seediings inside 
7 small protective wire cage (which the plants will grow up 
through and out of) otherwise those dope-crazed cats 
rub out the young plants entirely. 
Pi 
[Suggested and Reviewed by David Noton] 
+ 
a - ay ? 
> 
+ 
- 
sy 
Catalog 
$.50 
from: 
Clyde Robin 
P.O. Box 2091 
Castro Valley, Ca. 94546 
_ Schumacher /s a catalog for professional nurserymen and 
_ 
foresters, but don’t be shy. /f you know the Latin name 
of the tree you're after, you can find a good deal in this 
catalog. 
Si 
—SB 
Pisa 
[Suggested by Carnegie Schensted] 
-F. W. Schumacher 
Sandwich, Mass. 02563 
California tree seeds available from: 
R.S. Adams 
P.O. Box 561 
Davis, CA 95616 
Gardens of the Blue Ridge is a pretty catalog of eastern U.S. 
_ wildflowers, trees, shrubs, and bulbs. 
ar 
Gardens of the Blue Ridge 
: 
Ashford, N.C. 28603 
is 
_ The 3 Laurels has a smaller ca talog of wild flowering plants: 
ECW 
ga 
‘The Three laurels 
Pa, 
Marshall, N.C. 28753 
= 
pe. 
=) 
. 
California wildflowers also from: 
cal 
Theodore Payne Foundation 
10459 Turford St. 
Sun Valley, CA 91352 
Ie = 
; 
E 
ne You can buy a forest, or all kinds of trees from: 
eo. 
Musser Forests Inc. 
Indiana, Pa 15701 
TUB GARDEN 
_The Van Ness Water Gardens carries a wonderful selection of Water 
ilies——both hardy and tropical and also the sacred Lotus——they 
WU send you a 75¢ catalog on request and therein you wiil find 
yeautifiul pictures and descriptions of the lilies and lotus they offer. 
so in this catalog you will find complete instructions on growing 
es, their requirements and information also on building lily 
_ 
ponds——curing them——planting and natural balance of a pond. 
_ They also sell many beautiful goldfish——water plants and snails. 
<A 
‘There'ts alist of helpful books in there also! 
my limited dealing with them they have been very nice to me and 
pleasant to deal with. 
You can visit the Gardens on Thurs., 
Sat. only between 8:00AM——5:00PM——the other days are 
‘losed because of packing and shipping because they ship all over 
e world. Address of Water Gardens—— 
Van Ness Water Gardens 
2460 N. Euclid Avenue 
Upland, California 91786 
They 
also are familiar with the organic growing method and practice 
tt also. 
: 
wing a frog pond gives such joy and serenity! 
Visiting the Zen 
mples in Kyoto gave such an indescribable feeling especially the 
ul ponds! I hope this information opens new experiences 
Paul & Toni Goldenberg 
La Habra Heights, CA 
“The Stud,” said an unseen baritone. “Everybody wants one.” 
The Lone Outdoorsman asked Divine Right if his VW had 
independent front-end suspension. D.R. said he didn’t know. 
"It's a good thing to have if you’re going to do any cross- 
country driving.” 
“| guess it is,”” said D.R. 
“We're driving cross-country,” said Estelle. 
The Outdoorsman turned and looked at her. He was on his 
feet now, looking for some ketchup in a cabinet near the TV set. 
"No kidding? You all drive around in the boonies?” 
“No,” said Estelle. ‘We stay on the highway. But we're driving 
across the country. 
“I've driven across the country fourteen times in the last two 
years,” said D.R. 
“Oh,” said the Outdoorsman. ‘’That’s not what | mean. 
| 
mean out in the boonies, where you'd take a trail-bike, or something. 
You know. Cross-country.” 
Divine Right asked the Outdoorsman if he’d ever driven across 
the country. 
“Well now,” said the Outdoorsman. ‘Do you mean cross- 
country, or across the country.” 
“| mean across America,” said D.R. 
“The nation, in other words,” said the Outdoorsman. 
“But the nation is the country,” said Estelle. 
Pine, Cypress, Fir, Redwoods, Eucalyptus 
Davis Headquarters Forest Nursery, Rte. 1, Box 1410, 
Davis, California 95616. The state of California’s distribution 
center for trees for reforestation, erosion, windbreaks. A 
long form of course, but they mail pines, cypress, fir, 
redwoods, eucalyptus in quantities of 100-1,000 or more. 
One year old bare-root trees (4-10” height) are as little 
as $10 per 500. 
Growing Wildflowers 
I might poini out that the growing of desirable wildflowers involves 
a great deal more than turning them loose. If you live in suburbia 
the idiot who built the place dug the topsoil out to form your base- 
ment and then thoughtfully graded the subsoil over top of the 
existing topsoil. 
You can remedy this as I did by “digging the soil 
up two feet down”, and throwing it out. Replace this with leaf- 
moldy soil from the nearest woods, add a ton of peat moss, the 
contents of your compost pile, and some well-manured soil from 
your vegetable patch and you're all set to go, provided you have 
adequate shade and moisture. Also since chlorine and flouride 
are fatal to native orchids, obtain water from a non-polluted 
source. Do this and you will be growing ladyslippers, trailing 
arbutus, trilliums, what have you, even as I am. 
I do not recommend growing wildflowers from seed to the beginner, 
unless the species is otherwise unobtainable, is a biennial or annual, 
or is grown rather easily. It is a lot easier to collect a few specimens 
from your locality, and obtain desirable plants which do not grow 
in your area from dealers. A plant which will not survive transplant 
when in bloom will move with utmost ease when dormant. 
So 
place little flags on the plants you want and come back later. New 
plants will soon replace what you have collected if you fill in and 
cover the soil. If you take no more than a couple plants, the station 
ts safe till the bulldozer arrives, and a collection of wildflowers in 
cultivation can restock the wild following depredation. I wonder 
if anyone would care to engage in a plant exchange, agricultural 
regulations notwithstanding. 
The very best wildflower dealer I 
know of is Mr. Paul Leslie, 30 
Summer Street, Methuen, Mass. He has obtained his entire stock 
by growing it from seed, without removing one specimen from the 
wild, which is more than I can say for myself. He also digs his 
plants from the ground the day he sends them to you, whereas some 
others use cold storage facilities. He is also more knowledgeable 
and takes more professional pride in his work than some others. 
Catalog 25¢ Also good (and less expensive) sources of plants are 
C. Robbins’ Gardens of the Blue Ridge, Ashford, N.C. and The 
Three Laurels, Marshall, N.C. Although many of their plants are 
nursery-grown, both of these dealers sell plants collected directly 
from the wild. Catalogs free. 
There are three firms which might be of interest to you because 
they offer plants which are simply not obtainable in the U.S.A. 
I recommend Sutton & Sons, Limited, Reading, England for 
vegetable seeds, Thompson and Morgan, Ipswich, Ltd., Ipswich, 
England 
for flower seeds, and C. J. van Tubergen, n.v., 
Zwanenburg Nurseries, Box 116, Koninginneweg 86, Haarlem, 
Holland, for bulbs. 
The last-mentioned are wholesalers, and 
charge 50% extra on orders under $100. Also don’t let them 
airmail something which doesn’t need it, and place your order well 
in advance. 
You will obtain superior bulbs by ordering from them, 
however. I wish some people in New Mexico would get together 
and grow their Onco-cyclus and Regelia series of Iris species; they 
are of unique beauty but require a hot, dry summer I cannot 
provide. 
All three offer free catalogues. 
Donald Hackenberry 
Reedsville, Pa. 
rivers and things.” 
D.R. had stopped eating altogether. Leaning toward the Ou 
doorsman, and emphasizing with his fork, he said, “Do you mean 
you don’t think America and the country are the same thing?” 
: 
“Of course not,” said the Outdoorsman. “Ain't you ever read 
; 
any history?” 
“I've read history,” said Estelle. 
The Lone Outdoorsman swallowed some more steak and went 
on as if Estelle hadn’t said anything. “Now you take these people s 
on the wagon train. They're traveling across the country, right?” 
“Right,” said D.R. 
“Okay. They're traveling across the country, but they’re not 
traveling across America. Because the country where they’re 
traveling hasn’t been taken into the nation yet, if you see what ! 
mean. There's no statehood there on the plains yet, therefore that 
country they’re in isn’t part of America. Now if where they are 
was a state, say Kansas, or South Dakota, then you could say 
they’re traveling across America. But since they’re not, why then 
thry’re traveling cross-country.” 
““So you mean the people on Westward, Westward are not 
traveling in America, but just traveling in the country, because 
America and the country are two different things.” 
“Something like that. America, you see, is yet to come on 
Westward, Westward. Of course by now it has come. Westward 
Westward’s just a story, don’t you see. 
It’s about something that’s 
been over a long time. 
| mean, the westward movement is some- 
thing my grandfather helped do. Him and the others took the 
country, and turned it into America, if you see what | mean.” 
“Well, | don’t, actually,” said Divine Right. 
The Lone Outdoorsman chewed the last of his steak, and 
sopped up the gravy with a piece of bread. ‘’Well,”’ he said. 
“You're young yet. You will one of these days.” 
Pee 
ee 
Se, 
wd 
ee 
So 
A 
( Gass JL, Brest 
Se) 
ee 
LS 
TOM GINSBERG’S | CHING 
By the time the Outdoorsman and his guests had finished 
their steaks and cleaned the table off for dessert, the wagon train 
had been surrounded by about a thousand Indians, and Tom 
Ginsberg had been wounded twice. 
He could still shoot a pistol 
but the lady wagon driver had to load for him. 
She loaded while 
he shot and he shot while she loaded, and the bodies made a 
little border around the circled wagons. 
Now and then the camera 
panned around the circle and showed other people firing at the 
Indians. 
But it was clear that the outcome of the battle really 
depended on how well Tom and his lady friend did with their 
guns. 
And in spite of the stack of bodies ‘beyond the wagons, 
you could tell by the desperate expressions on their faces that 
they didn’t think they were doing very well. 
“Poor old Tom looks sort of undecided, don’t he?” said 
the Outdoorsman. 
Estelle laughed. 
“Maybe he ought to throw the | Ching,” 
she said. 
D.R. leaped to his feet. “Perfect!’’ he yelled. 
“Perfect!” 
The Outdoorsman asked what was perfect but D.R. was 
moving too fast to answer. 
He bolted past Estelle, stumbled out 
of the camper and ran through the dark to his own campsite 
where Urge was patiently waiting. 
Half a minute later he was 
back in the Outdoorsman’s camper, carrying his battered, leather- 
covered copy of the | Ching. 
“What are you doing?” asked the Outdoorsman. 
“We're throwing Tom Ginsbers’s | Ching,” said D.R. 
“What's an | Ching?” 
“Never mind,” said D.R. 
“Just toss these coins.” 
Quickly they tossed the coins, two times each, and Estelle 
drew the hexagram. 
Chien. 
Obstruction. 
Trouble. 
“Uh oh,” said D.R. 
“It looks heavy.” 
Indeed it did. 
Nearly everybody in the wagon train was 
dead now except Tom and the lady. 
Indians had penetrated 
the inner circle and were systematically scalping the slain white 
folks while still other Indians battled the remaining survivors. 
D.R. began to read Tom's Ching aloud: 
“The hexagram pic- 
tures a dangerous abyss lying before us and a steep, inaccessible 
mountain rising behind us. 
We are surrounded by obstacles.“’ 
As D.R. said that, an arrow pierced the lady wagon driver's 
heart. 
“Difficulties and obstructions throw a man back upon him- 
self,"” D.R. went on. 
“While the inferior man seeks to put the 
blame on other persons, bewailing his fate, the superior man 
seeks the error within himself, and through this introspection the 
external obstacle becomes for him an occasion for inner en- 
richment and education.” 
The screen was filled with the face of a hideous savage, 
advancing on Tom with tomahawk upraised. Tom shot him 
with his pistol but instantly two more Savages appeared, armed 
with knives and tomahawks. 
“When threatened with danger,” D.R. read, “one should not 
strive blindly to go ahead, for this only leads to complications. 
The correct thing is, on the contrary, to retreat for the time 
being, not in order to give up the struggle but to await the right 
moment for action.” 
“Retreat, hell!” shouted the Outdoorsman. ‘Stand your 
ground, Tom. 
Die with your goddamn boots on!” 
The camera closed in on Tom’s tense face. 
In spite of the 
blood oozing from the gash in his forehead his eyes blazed with 
courage and determination. 
Gritting his teeth, Tom struggled to 
get to his feet. 
Leaning against the wagon wheel, his left arm 
dangling useless at his side, Tom raised his right arm and pointed 
his pistol at the advancing Indians. 
Then he disappeared and was 
replaced on the screen by fifteen Dalmatian pups gorging them- 
selves on Fido Dog Food. 
Trees & Flowers 
foe 
Land Use 
f 
a 
i ete. 
tele 
ee 
be,
a 
Deas, 
ab 
cia 
aide 
hau 
tale 
awe 
wR 
