d 
iman establishes 
the radically-based theory 
e it must take 
to evade the u/timate population 
—SB 
be a Survivor 
1, 
Richard Harriman 
aT 
ae 
hae 
; 
n Gna Books, Inc. 
DR. PAUL R. EHRLICR 
fth Ave 
Y 
and 
RICHARD L HARRIMAN 
10003 
OLE 
| 
3TH CATALOG 
© 
a 
er how you slice it, the resources of the planet are finite, 
many of them are non-renewable. Each giant molecule of 
m is lost forever when we tear it asunder by burning to 
he energy of sunlight stored in it millions of years ago. 
rations of mineral wealth are being dispersed beyond 
selessly scattered far and wide to where we cannot 
rd the 
energy to reconcentrate them. Precious stores of fresh 
und water, accumulated over millennia, are being drained much 
e rapidly than natural processes can replenish them. 
: 
e 
riminatory and therefore potentially more effective 
might be simply to cut the income tax in half for each 
reach year she did not reproduce, with a similar tax 
ing 
to guardians of girls who do not pay taxes. Since 
e poor have little or no income tax liability, the system 
; 
criminate against the prime villains: 
the middle class. 
The 
effect on the rich, however, would probably be negligible, 
ce the present tax structure is largely a swindle perpetrated by 
h at the expense of the middle class and poor. Replacement 
egressive income tax system with a truly progressive one 
help in this area as well as in many others. 
= 
; 
e 
" we 
Europeans live a pleasant, reasonably affluent life om somewhat less 
one-half the per capita electric power consumption of Ameri- 
nd with careful planning their level of- consumption could 
e greatly reduced. Amazingly, though, the American power 
_ 
industry wants to increase our per capita consumption at a rate 
Ss % 
the will double our national use of power every decade. 
more-direct 
than boycotting the bastards is sueing the 
stards or toughening the laws they must abide by or just 
rcing the laws they’re presently ignoring. Citizen action. 
shows why and how. 
‘Defending the Environment 
Fbook deals principally with preventive injunctions, designed 
Op environmentally dangerous projects before they get under- 
ts seeking money damages for the public, by and large, are of 
/ importance in environmental controversies. Most of the 
; sought to be protected could not be easily compensated in 
in any event. Clean air and water for public use, scenic 
Vv 
ind the maintenance of fisheries and recreation:areas, even 
where 
demonstrably harmed, rarely matter in significant dollar 
a 
to any particular identifiable citizen. The effects of en- 
ntal conditions are diffuse both in space and time, and 
| a damage suit achieve the results sought. This is not to 
hat such suits should be banned——only that they are not 
priately at the cutting edge of the movement for environ- 
quality. The prospect of damage suits may have some de- 
effect, but they tend to drag on interminably, with little 
sno ¢ 
\d reason why we should hesitate to adtop a theory 
¢ 
ts to environmental quality, enforceable at law, nor 
on to think we cannot adjudicate 
the reasonable 
ons needed 
to protect against unnecessary threats to 
THREE LAWS 
EVERYTHING IS CONNECTED TO EVERYTHING 
EVERYTHING’S GOT TO GO SOMEWHERE 
THERE’S NO SUCH THING AS A FREE LUNCH 
Shake hands with tomorrow 
Minamata Disease—a neuro- 
muscular condition traceable 
to organic mercury in fresh- 
water fish. 
or fight pollution today. 
MANNENSHA INTERNATIONAL INC. ad, reprinted in 
Environmental Action. 
Four good organizations 
Four good newsletters 
Clear Creek reminded us: 
Sierra Club 
Sierra Club Bulletin $15/yr 
Mills Tower 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
Friends of the Earth 
Not Man Apart $15/yr, $7.50 students 
30 East 42nd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
Wilderness Society 
Wilderness Society Bulletin $7.50/yr, $4 students 
729 15th St. N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
Environmental Defense Fund 
Newsletter $10/yr, $5 students 
1910 N. St. N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
The Environmental Defense Fund, a group of scientists and 
lawyers attacking a broad range of environmental problems 
by. incorporating science into new law and pushing for the 
enforcement of ecologically sound but politically unattrac- 
tive existing legislation. | think a lot of Catalogue readers 
would like EDF. Its life style is not as funky as some 
ecology action groups, but it has been extremely effective 
in its short lifetime. EDF-also has a newsletter which un- 
spins legal and bureaucratic webs as exotic as nature herself. 
In that sense, affiliation with EDF is a dynamic encounter 
‘with some of. the most pervasive and influential forms of 
our civilization. 
John Woodcock 
Bloomington, Indiana 
Environmental lawyers might be interested in the 
Environmental Law Reporter, $50/yr (monthly), from: 
The Environmental Law Institute, Dupont Circle Bldg., 
Suite 620, 1346 Connecticut Ave N.W., Washington, D.C. 
20036. The first issue was 280 pp, organized into Summary 
and Comments, Litigation, Statutory & Administrative 
. Materials, Administrative Proceedings, Articles & Notes, 
and Bibliography-& Facsimile Service. 
[Suggested by Gordon Andreus] 
and boycott 
industry is the responsibility o 
ARS: 
f that industry.” 
i 
Individual buyers have far more control over economic 
behavior than voters. Regardless of how you feel about 
the profit motive (I like it fine), most of the polluters 
are bound by it, except government ones. 
/f you hurt 
their sales because they hurt your air or water, then they 
or their competitors will do anything to get your business 
back. High-mindedness doesn’t have to enter into it, just 
choice for value. 
However, beware of false labeling. Ecology is fashionable, 
and there’s a lot of pretense going on, especially in the ads. 
This is where the ecology organizations can be invaluable. 
They are best equipped to determine who the real polluters 
are (and who are making real efforts to clean up their 
cycles), and they can shout it from the rooftops. 
A compendious list of ecology (etc.) organizations has been 
compiled by Ecology Center and Planned Parenthood: 
_sB 
Grass Roots 
Feb. 1970; 50+ pp. 
$1 .50 postpaid 
from: 
Ecology Center 
or 
2179 Allston Way 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
Planned Parenthood 
482 West MacArthur Blvd. 
Oakland, CA 94609 
Consumer Alliance 
Consumer Alliance will represent the combinea purchasing 
power of several million customers organized on a nation- 
wide basis to.demand the right to have safe, functional, 
durable, and recyclible products which have been manufac- 
tured in an ecologically sound manner. 
The address for free copies of the Declaration of Consumer 
- 
Rights, membership applications and information ts: 
Consumer Alliance, P.O. Box 11773, Palo Alto, California 
94306. Annual membership is $5.00; junior memberships 
are available. Consumer Alliance is tax-exempt and tax- 
deductible. 
Richard Harriman 
FALLING 
Estelle and D.R. hadn’t had many times like this one lately. 
They'd fucked a'time or:two coming down through California, 
but it seemed like there just wasn’t enough leisure on this trip 
for any real love-making. Exhaustion was the theme so far. 
Exhaustion had been catching up to them for a long time now. 
In a way their whole experience together since Altamont had been 
a steady descent into exhaustion; a drop that gained momentum 
as they went along, like falling. When D.R. felt particularly tired, 
and dirty, and locked up in his mind, it was like he was the one 
who was falling, with Estelle being dragged along behind. That 
wasn’t accurate, of course. That was just stuff in D.R.’s head, a 
product of the same weary fever that produced the sense of falling 
in the first place. There was a way in which Estelle had already 
fallen further than D.R. had, already knew stuff that he had yet 
to learn. In a way, she was coming up as he went down, and 
reaching out a hand to save him from what she already knew. The 
thing that overwhelmed D.R. when he thought about it that way 
was how utterly generous that was of her, and how dangerous for 
her. Danger was everywhere, it seemed, and in more guises than 
he could account for. Sometimes D.R. felt like he had some kind of 
disease that.Estelle was sure to catch if she stayed with him long 
=-enough. As a matter of fact, he’d given her the clap the very first 
week they were together. As a man who dealt heavily in signs and 
omens, he had seen that as a forewarning, a metaphor of other 
and worse things yet to come. 
It hadn’t bothered him all that much 
at the time. 
In the beginning, Estelle had been just another cunt 
by the roadside as likely to give the clap to him as the other way 
around. But that was a couple of months ago, or three, or four, 
he wasn’t sure any more just how long ago it had been. His sense 
of time was all internal now. The only things he measured were 
miles and micrograms, and even then he had little use for precision 
But however long ago it had been since he'd first found Estelle 
: 
it was long enough for him to come to depend on her so much it 
threatened him. He hated depending on someone as much as 
that, and the fact that she depended just as much, or more, on-him 
only made it that much worse. 
: 
A 
But it wasn’t a thing that he could choose b: 
i 
there was a power over his life that wasn’t his = 
wield pete 
so phate mysterious all D.R. could do was yield. 
/ 
- 
Wield 
to 
yield 
" 
i 
. 
I'l:have to Rare 
Seago cor an ia Sous pen 
BE Gelhict orbits ts Pape 
yield. Shield and dealed. 
, 
said 
D.R. 
“Tell it to me,” said Estelle. 
Pies = yield and shield and dealed.”” 
stelle laughed.and rol 
Beha uti matuees scbhopan. er her back so she could take her 
D.R. started undressing too. When they were naked Estelle 
pulled D.R. 
Lani 
on top of her, and for almost an hour they made 
Desperate Ecology Action 
, 
4 
Whole Systems 
“Re 
| 
4
