Rabbits 
Here are some good books on rabbit raising. If you raise 
rabbits you can eat them and tan the hides for clothes 
to keep you warm. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Martin K. Rorapaugh] 
The Purina Rabbit Book, available from your feed store or 
probably from Ralston Purina Company, Checkerboard 
Square, St. Louis Mo. 63199. This one is free (they might 
appreciate postage if you send for it | don’t know) and 
gives all the information you need if you just want to eat 
the rabbits. It gives cage dimensions, good breeding 
practices (for the rabbits), and feeding suggestions. The 
best part of this little book is that it gives a calendar system 
so that you can keep track of when to do what. Its a 
‘good easy thing to follow. The same people also offer 
Pamphlets on rabbit diseases, and cage plans. 
Raising Rabbits Farmers Bulletin No. 2131, U.S. Dept of 
Agriculture. Available from Superintendent of Documents, 
U.S. Govt. Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402 cost 
15 cents. Covers basics but doesn’t cover diseases or 
tanning hides. Its cheap but not much better than the free 
one above. 
Commercial Rabbit Raising Agricultural Handbook No. 309, 
U.S. Dept. of Agriculture. Available from Superintendent 
of Documents for 30 cents. This is a good cheap book. It 
covers a// the basics like how to select a breed, feed and 
manage the herd etc. It also tells how to use the manure (as 
if you didn’t know) and cure rabbit skins. This is a goodie 
for the price. 
Domestic Rabbit Production by George S. Templeton 
(He’s a real genuine expert). If you want the best and don’t 
mind paying money this is it. It is comp/ete. Covers every- 
thing the others cover plus rabbit diseases (thorough and 
easy to follow), tanning the hides, rabbit recipes, and get 
this, quantity recipes adjusted for 25, 50 or 100 souls. Its 
published by the Interstate Printers & Publishers, Inc, 
Danville, Illinois. 
Domestic Rabbit Production 
_ Georg 
S. Templeton 
$6.75 postpaid 
from: 
Interstate Printers & Publishers, Inc. 
19-27 North Jackson Street 
Danville, Illinois 61832 
More Rabbits 
Rabbit raising: 
In addition to the books you have already listed previously here are 
some more: 
American Rabbit Breeders Assoc. 
4323 Murray Ave. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217 
25¢ 
Boy Scout Merit Badge Series 
No. 3375 
Albers Milling Co. 
800 West 47th St. 
Kansas City, Missouri 64112 
Raising Rabbits (free, | think) 
Commercial Rabbit Raising 
50 ¢ 
Glick Manufacturing Co. 
1595 Almaden Road 
San Jose, Calif. 95125 
Catalog& Book 
$1.00 
Commercial Rabbit Growers Discount Club 
P.O. Box 5693 
San Jose, Calif. 95150 
Catalog free 
With four does and one buck and less than $85, you can eat good and 
in two-years break even if...you sell your surplus to a commercial 
dealer. A good way to live if you aren’t a vegetarian. 
T.G. Crouthamel 
Spotswood, N.J. 
Books About Rabbit Raising 
Domestic Rabbit Production, 
George S. Templeton 
I Choose Rabbits, E.H. Stall 
Raising Rabbits, Farmers’ Bulletin No 
No. 2131, Div. of Publications, 
Office of Information, Dept. 
of Agriculture, Wash. D.C. 20505 
20505 
Magazines 
National Rabbit Raiser, 241 W. 
Snelling Ave., Appleton, 
Minn. 56208 
Small Stock Magazine, P.O. Box 107, 
Marshall, Wisconsin 53559 
The Rabbitman, Auburn, Ala. 36830 
Additional Booklets 
Commercial Rabbit Raising, 
USDA Handbook No. 309, 70 
pages, July 1966, Supt. of Doc- 
uments, Wash, D.C. 20402, 
30 cents. 
Litters range from 6 to 18 young, depending 
upon the breed, age of the doe, and the season. 
The ideal number to leave for the mother to 
wean is seven. If you have two or more does 
kindling at the same time, litters can be bal- 
anced by taking youngsters from one mother 
and giving them to another on the first or se- 
cond day after they are born. When the young 
are no more than 2 days old, neither doe will 
mind the transfer. 
Rabbit Raising 
$0.45 
from: 
Boy Scouts of America 
New Brunswick, New Jersey 
New Zealand Black (right) 
Ruby-Eyed White Polish (left) 
Sheep 
! would like to spread the word about the joys of raising 
sheep. They require almost no work and very little money 
to care for. In return you get enough wool for yourself, 
your friends, as well as some extra to sell; excellent manure 
for your garden (second only to chicken manure in nitrogen 
content), and, if you're into it, a cheap source of mutton or 
lamb which, like all home grown foods, is far superior to 
anything in the store. 
In the winter, you’ll need some hay, corn, and a shelter for 
them to sleep in. In the summer, you‘ll need nothing but 
a grassy field (they’re great to trim the grass around your 
house). Also, since they can’t reach very high and are unable 
to climb at all, they don’t wreak destruction to all your 
small bushes and trees as goats do. 
Rambling Rabbit Rap 
I spent most of this past summer with a farmer friend of mine who 
raises rabbits as a main source of table meat for his family. Six 
does and a buck kept in hutches at the edge of the garden provide 
regular meat for his family of four. Other than the heavy work of 
removing the manure as it accumulates, the rabbits are in the care 
of my friend’s twelve-year old daughter, who feeds and waters them 
as part of her daily chores. Her father does the slaughtering as the 
young rabbits mature. The meat is kept in the freezer, and eaten at 
the rate of about one, sometimes two, a week. 
I'd tasted wild rabbit before, but I didn’t remember much about 
it, except that the occasion was loaded with an atmosphere of 
muted guilt, or at least an uncomfortable degree of self-conscious- 
ness. I was a kid at the time and I don’t remember who the adults 
were, cooking and serving the meat. But I do remember the almost 
compulsive talk that went on among them about how wild rabbits 
were sometimes dangerous to eat, about how we probably ought 
not be eating this one, but let’s just take a bit of him anyway, and 
see. I took my bite, but what I tasted was the general misgivings 
about the whole thing. And those misgivings stayed in my head 
for 25 years, until this very summer when we were eating rabbit 
as a regular staple. 
And it was great! It was at least as good as fried chicken, and may- 
be even alittle better, depending on whose chicken you've been 
eating. My friend said that as far as the work of meat-production 
is concerned, rabbits are far less trouble to keep than chickens. 
He keeps chickens, but mainly for the eggs. (He raises beef and 
pork too, as well as a fantastic organic garden, all on twelve rather 
hilly acres. Working together, he and his wife and their two child- 
ren come as close as anyone I know to total organic self-sufficiency). 
We talked some about the question of animal slaughter, of killing 
other creatures to feed on them. He said that in the beginning he 
had some trouble killing his rabbits, but that he finally overcame 
it when he quit thinking of them as “‘bunnies” and looked upon 
them as simply a source of protein. That attitude will no doubt 
trouble the more committed vegetarians; but not many farmers 
putting in 10 and 12 hours work a day are vegetarians. If a rabbit 
isa fellow being, so is acorn stalk. Creatures eat creatures. Some 
day worms will eat us all, and whatever debt we may owe the 
carbon-nitrogen cycle will no doubt then be paid in full. 
So went our dialogue. Or one chapter of it, anyway. One of the 
great things about the summer on the farm was the kind of running 
conversation we had, picking up. hours and even days later where 
the talk left off before. Farmers certainly work a good deal more 
than they talk, but when.they do talk, it’s grand to listen in. The 
language of men working together in a field is a rare and special 
thing. Men who work together, summer after summer, for years, 
have a common body of lore, a mutual frame of reference that 
underlies everything they say. When its best is when the words 
begin from a concrete subject, rise into a grand abstraction, con- 
volute a time or two then return to earth again. Our talk about 
rabbits was like that. We talked about them as “‘bunnies,”’ against 
rabbits as food to eat. That got us into talk about the esoteric 
loveliness of a 
wagon wheel as a thing you paint and display in 
your front yard, against the loveliness of a 
wheel on an actual 
wagon that’s helping you do the work necessary to your livelihood. 
Then we got into the difference between vocation and avocation, 
of the unhappiness that comes when a person’s play ts too far re- 
moved from his work. Raising rabbits is play, it’s fun, a hobby. 
But it can also be work, good, productive work of the kind that 
contributes to health and vigor by getting good home-grown food 
on the table. 
And so we got into the organic life as an ideal, a life in which 
opposites like “work” and “play” are reconciled. When your life 
is one of daily, personal “‘creation,” of work that satisfies like 
play does, you’re less in need of purchased, artificial re-creation. 
The average industrial worker does a job he hates in order to buy 
the things he loves, like food, and entertainment. His vocation is 
one thing, his avocation another, and. never the twain shall meet. 
This split ultimately leads to the deadly division between city 
and country. And in the same way the modern vocation, or indus- 
trial job, is deadly to the individual worker’s creative spirit, the 
city has become the deadly enemy of the countryside. To satisfy 
the appetites of the city, the countryside is pillaged by industrial, 
mechanized farms for food and strip mines for fuel for electric 
power. How neurotic, how divided our culture against itself! 
And thus we came to the question, can the lowly rabbit possibly 
come to the rescue? We decided it could. Rabbits can be raised in 
any back yard, as food, primarily; but they can also be raised as a 
metaphor of a new and simultaneously old possibility, the possi- 
bility of cottage economy. They can be raised as a metaphor of 
opposites reconciled, of cultural schizophrenia overcome. They 
can stand as an image of country stuff happening in town, of town 
style stretched to embrace country substance, of work become play 
and play become work, which, after all, is not far from Adam and 
Eve’s set-up in the Orginal Garden. I don’t plan to hold my breath 
till the Golden Age arrives. But I do plan to raise some rabbits 
in my suburban backyard this year, and to eat the little morsels 
one by one when they are grown. 
——Gurney Norman 
/ think a small flock of horned Dorsets would be an inval- 
uable addition to any agricultural community. For free 
information on raising sheep and brochure for Horned 
Dorsets write: William Gratwick, Pavilion, N.Y. 14525. 
Yours truly, 
Ned Nisson 
Pavilion, N.Y. 
/f you're interested in raising a small flock, may | recommend 
the Horned Dorset. 
They are a good breed for producing 
wool or meat and are by far the most beautiful of domestic 
breeds. 
The main practical advantage of the Horned Dorset 
is the high frequency of twins produced during lambing. 
They are able to lamb twice a year, so you can usually 
count on three or four lambs a year from each ewe. 
36830 
6O Rabbits 
Land Use 
Rabbit Production, USDA Bulle- 
tin No. 1730, 1950, 20 cents 
Common Diseases of Domestic 
Rabbits, USDA Bulletin No. 
45-3 
