— 
. 
Some life and some light on deadly subjects like America, 
Race, The World, The Future, Where We Come From, What's 
Happening, by. 
and a bright old lady? Foxy sweethearts. 
A Rap on Race 
Margaret Mead, James Baldwin 
1971; 256 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
J. B. Lippincott Company 
E. Washington Sq. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19105 
521 Sth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
MARGARET 
MEAD 
JAMES 
BALDWIN 
E ARap on Race 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Baldwin: 
This is very funny. Go on. 
Mead: But! had reversed it, and my picture of rape was of.a black 
woman raped by a white man. 
He was a butcher, too, and that’s one 
of the things | thought of: he was a brutal character. So whenever 
| dreamt of rape, | dreamt of this black woman being raped by a 
white man. And our mother insisted on our calling her Mrs. — this 
is 1912. And whenever she turned up in a dream, | knew exactly 
what | was dreaming about. This is a straight reversal of ordinary 
American experience. 
Baldwin: 
That's right. The ordinary American mythology is 
entirely different. 
| suppose that explains a lot about you. 
Mead: 
Probably, although I’m not completely free. You see, | 
don’t think any American— any white American— 
is free of a 
special attitude toward American Negroes. Just as you're saying 
there aren’t any Negroes outside of America. We are often nice to 
other dark-skinned peoples. We treat African princes or Indians with 
turbans very well. When | went on... .My first field trip was to 
Samoa. Well, of course, the Polynesians are people everybody thinks 
are beautiful. 
If you look at them very closely, they are not really 
the most beautiful people in the world by any absolute standard. 
Yet everybody thinks they're beautiful. 
Chinese people think so, 
black people think so, everybody thinks so. 
I’ve now figured out 
why: that for maybe two or three thousand years they never saw 
anybody but themselves, and they think they're beautiful and they 
are so impressed with themselves that everybody else thinks they're 
beautiful. 
If you think you’re beautiful, you move like a beautiful 
person. 
e 
Baldwin: 
In the name of your ancestors; let us put it that way. 
| 
have heard myself walking around the house singing a song | had 
forgotten, or didn’t even know | knew, because | had to get through 
something and | had to find the only weapons | had. You reach out 
behind you and pick up whatever there is to confront this moment 
and to get past it. There is something very mysterious about it. 
Mystery is the only way | can define it. 
It is not mystical, but it 
seems to me that your ancestors give you, if you trust them, some- 
thing to get through the world. 
Handbook for Conscientious Objectors 
The most comprehensive and authoritative single guide to the 
legal requirements and procedures for C.O.s under the present draft 
law. 
This book does not advise you to become a conscientious 
objector, but it does help in thinking through your beliefs and 
realistically making a decision about the draft. If you are consider- 
ing asking your draft board for conscientious objector status, 
considering resistance, or just exploring your alternatives with the 
draft, this book is valuable. 
[t also has information for C.O.s in the 
military, and describes the possible eventualities of court and 
prison. 
CCCO also provides counseling, legal advice, help with bail, and 
publishes information useful to counseling agencies, lawyers and 
objectors. CCCO is non-church related, and lives on voluntary 
tributions. 
seers acho 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson. 
Suggested by many.] 
Handbook for Conscientious Objectors 
Edited by Arlo Tatum 
110 pp.; Updated frequently, 
$1.00 postpaid 
$4.00 for five, postpaid 
from: 
Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors 
2016 Walnut Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. 10103 
or the west coast office: 
437 Market Street 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG $2” Francisco, CA 94105 
Robert’s Rules of Order 
/f decisions are required from a group that doesn’t always 
have consensus, these rules will organize the tangle enough 
to get through it. 
Robert’s Rules of Order 
Rachel Vixman commentary 
1967; 204 pp. 
$0.95 postpaid 
from: 
Pyramid Publications, Inc. 
444 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
Pr oad 
0a) te Pera 
ROBERT'S 
RULES 
OF 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
When Thomas Jefferson became President of the United States, he 
published the first American book on parliamentary procedure in 
1801. This became one of the main sources for the rules in Congress 
and continued to be the foremost authority on parliamentary pro- 
ure until Cushing's Manual was published in 1844. 
. .is ita black and a white, or bright young man 
Black Reading List 
Robin’s Distributing Company lists 600 books “relating 
the Black Experience” and 200 or so other revolutionary 
political titles. Looks pretty comprehensive. 
‘ “BALLOTS or BULLETS” 
—SB 
Robin’s Distributing Company 
6 North 13th Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19107 
Win 
to change people, you must communicate with them. 
there are a number of ways to go about changing a person’s 
mind. walk up to him on the street, grab him by the 
carnation lapel, and yell ““boogetyshoo, you mistaken 
bastard!” or catch him asleep and whisper honeydrips of 
sweet poison into his ear... “think, think, think, think, 
think, think, think, think.” or become a soothsayer, 
truthsayer, set yourself up as an honest person, say what 
you think in a cluster of different accents, get your hand 
gestures down, and pretty soon people will start listening 
to whatever you are putting out. to work this alternative, 
though, you must either have a high reputation, indian 
chief, lawyer, god, or you must have a pile of power, the 
president of a large north american country. you can change 
society with painting, bombing, sidewalk scribbling, love, 
banking, unbanking, skywriting, prayer, retooling, and 
meditation, but, power to the people, you must change 
people to change society. 
win tries. 
it is a together magazine. 
—jd 
Win 
twice monthly, except for occasional monthly issues. 
$5.00 yearly 
from: 
Win 
339 Lafayette Street 
New York, New York 10012 
In the ancient Runic writing, common to the Scandinavian 
and Celtic lands, the symbol A Signifies “Man Dying”. Con- 
tained within a circle, 
the symbol signities “Man Dy- 
ing in harmony with the established forces of Nature, to be 
reborn.” Likewise, the symbol 
‘Y_ signifies “Man Worship- 
ping.” Contained within a circle, € the symbol signifies 
“Man affirming Life in harmony with the Cosmos, the est- 
ablished forces of Nature.” In both cases, the symbol is ex- 
tremely positive, an affirmation of the place of the person 
in a creative Cosmos, and from this ancient use as well as 
from its later derivation from the Semaphore letter, it is 
most appropriate to signify the fact that surrounded by for- 
ces of hatred, death, and destruction we must choose love, 
life and creativity. In the words of the Old Testament pro- 
phet:“‘I have set before you this day life and death, a bles- 
sing and a curse. Therefore, choose life!” 
It remained for Henry Martin Robert, an engineer and general in 
the United States Army, to modify these rules to meet the needs 
of ‘ordinary societies.” 
His first Robert’s Rules of Order, published 
in 1876, soon became a handbook for organizations, clubs and 
schools all over the land. 
In a constructive way, it exposed the use- 
lessness of attending meetings which began late and dragged on. 
It gave enlightenment and comfort to frustrated members who, 
without knowledge, were easily victimized by overbearing chairmen 
and ruthless small cliques. And it armed the general membership 
with the know-how to combat those seeking to push through con- 
troversial resolutions without proper consideration. 
ere, 
Motive 
Motive 
$5 /yr (monthly) 
from: 
Motive 
P.O. Box 871 
Nashville, Tennessee 37202 
Our commitment to revolution must contain a recognition that we 
ourselves are damaged; a revolution is not a gift bestowed on others, 
but a process beginning with our own selves and moving outward to 
a fuller and more human sense of self. Blacks and women should 
have taught us that revolutionary politics is the effort to overcome 
your own victimization— 
this is the only lasting source. 
Guilt 
over what has been done to the Others is simply not sustaining, 
whatever its other noble virtues. 
It is urgent that we confront 
first the facts, then the sources of our own poisoning; and it will 
be as risky and terrifying a confrontation as any on the streets. 
We all want to believe that we can remake ourselves simply by 
wishing, or by some mechanical act; but could it be that the 
society we know to be so pernicious toward blacks and Vietnamese 
lets us off with a wish or a single decision? 
There are a lot of specific revolutions that the movement should 
make in itself. Everybody has stored up his own list, but if there 
is a name for the attitude | would like to see, it might be revo- 
lutionary humility, a way of living we will have to take and make 
the time to struggle for. And | do not pretend that, in some sweet 
bootstrap operation, we can liberate ourselves if we only dissect 
ourselves enough. The process of liberation must remake the 
society as in the process we remake ourselves. 
It is said that Moses’ 
liberation army had to undertake its 40-year-long march through 
the wilderness because no ex-slave would be fit to live in a new 
society. Do we dare now to decide that the revolution is not 
simply for those who come after us but for ourselves? 
You MUST BE 
LOSING YouR, 
SENSE CF HUMOR - 
Laat Tewes 
TIME... AND TIME 
(S SHORT! 
Imperialism is far older than capitalism. 
It goes back to Alexander 
the Great wanting to conquer the world to give it the blessings of 
Greek culture— and even earlier. 
It includes the wars unleashed 
by Muslims to give the world the blessings of Islam and those un- 
leashed by the Church to convert the Infidel. 
Economics has 
sometimes been important if only because countries imagined that 
colonies would bring greater riches than they did. More often than 
not colonies have brought their mother country closer to bank- 
ruptcy than anything else. 
Partly because the eighteenth century 
English ruling class believed colonies were profitable they struggled 
relentlessly against American independence. To practically every- 
one’s surprise the profits of English business on its trade with 
America increased fantastically after the revolution. 
In fact, the 
growth of America unleashed by the revolution was one of the 
most glorious things that ever happened to English Business. 
Liberal English economists like Huskisson argued on the basis that 
England should let all its colonies go. However, the glory of 
empire evidently moved stronger than strictly economic motives 
and so England held on to its colonies. 
cs 
Walking 
road 
alonely road 
dark hills 
less night 
green-smelling breeze 
down the bank 
| cannot see 
the air cool from evening _ stirring leaves of willows 
down the bank below the road 
__| cannot see 
sycamores_ 
for there’sa creek somewhere 
I smellit 
Behind 
the rucus of the crickets and the frogs | hear it 
bubbling 
through a shoals 
Theair 
myskinandonmyeyes_ 
smell 
animals 
taste night as coal 
bite the coolness of the air against 
my skin not driving 
I’m notdriving 
only walking 
step by 
step through darkness on a starless moonless night along the valley 
green-smelling breezes stirring in the leaves 
beyond the panic 
of the time 
dark the clothes my fright came garbed in 
the 
shroud of fearful ghosts that chased me driving 
I’m not driving 
now I'm being driven 
pulled into the night 
smell railroad 
tracks 
creosote and steel and splintering ties with long steel 
bolts into them 
smell it over the bank 
feel the road bend 
know the tracks bend 
know the creek bends into the folding 
of the hill 
smell tracks 
remember 
placing nails upon them 
for a train to flatten into horseshoe nails 
pennies into Roman 
gold 
remember boys along the tracks 
counting gons and waving 
at the man in the caboose 
smell a passing train from long ago 
smell stream 
hear wind in sycamores 
see light upon the dark- 
ness up ahead 
aspeck 
afly 
alightningbug 
bobbing 
up and down and winking 
it’sastar 
it’s my brain shooting 
sparks behind my eyeballs 
it’s some strange foxfire in the woods 
above the road 
grows larger 
walk slower 
Slower till I stop 
for surely stopping stop it growing larger 
don’t jump around 
don’t get no bigger 
the light is larger every step that | don’t 
take 
the frogs and crickets all have hushed their singing 
don’t get no bigger 
don’t light up the world _ pupils 
light gets 
bigger coming closer | can hear it !canfeel it walking 
| can see 
it just before me 
hissing 
onthe forehead 
no 
please 
onthe 
forehead of a man. 
a starless moon- 
leaves of willows 
sycamores 
the road warm from afternoon 
sycamores 
Politics 
Community 
A soft-spoken, attractive, radical magazine from the South. ¢ 
but they are willows 
7 
4 
