as 
a lot in 
common with Champagne Living On A 
two 
té 
ke them more companion pieces than competitors. 
emphasis:in Champagne Living is on the cheap accumu- 
lation of necessary things. How to Live on Nothing covers 
me of that ground too, but its main concern is the devel- 
opment of personal skills to help you-get free of the need 
pay people like carpenters, plumbers, doctors and real 
ate 
agents to live your practical (that is to say, your 
’ or “concrete”) life for you. 
‘ 
course there’s no such thing as “living on nothing.”’ The 
ok would be more properly titled, Living for Something. 
For in a curious, unintended, Zen sort of way, that’s what 
is book is about: living simply to establish familiarity 
th 
the details of your world, with ordinary local mysteries 
d miracles such as the wiring system in your house, the 
abric of the garments you wear, the truth of the food you 
eat, and the fuel you burn. Behind the information, the 
advice, the hints, and the facts, this book is about coming to 
_ 
see things as they are, through your own eyes, instead of the 
hired eyes of some expert or other. 
It’s about training 
_ yourself to trust yourself, and trusting yourself to train 
yourself, until you‘re able to claim your right as a human 
be competent with your hands. 
F ‘inally no one is ever competent with his hands until he 
uses them, and flipping through how-to-do-it books can 
hardly be described as manual labor. So perhaps the best 
way to recommend a book like this is to call it literature 
t (below), but there’s enough difference between the 
A food and nutrition chapter would not be complete without 
mention of a food bargain that is unknown to most of us. It 
is MPF, the Multi-Purpose Food, developed at the California 
Institute of Technology and merchandised through the Meals 
for Millions Foundation Incorporated, [correction: 
1800 
Olympic, Santa Monica, CA]. This is a non-profit organization 
dedicated to relieving and preventing starvation and malnutrition 
throughout the world. Meals for Millions supplies MPF for 3 
cents a meal to famine areas. 
BLACKBOARD CHALK. Leftover ends of chalk will give met- 
als a shine when rubbed on. Also, store these ends with costume 
jewelry to keep it from tarnishing. 
City dwellers can get many vegetables for the asking at less 
trouble than we who have to wander among the weeds. The 
grocer nowadays has a perfect passion for washing greens and 
wrapping them in pliofilm. 
If you reach his place early in 
the morning when he's engaged in this vitamin-robbing task, 
you may receive a gift of the discarded vitamin-rich outer 
leaves plus a stray carrot and some celery stalks. 
I’ve obtained 
boxfuls from a grocer in a nearby town and | use the wooden 
boxes for fuel while I’m preparing the greens. 
CORKS. A used cork should be kept near the kitchen sink in a 
jigger glass or eggcup so that it is handy for scouring cutlery, etc. 
Used with scouring powder, it is effective and saves wear and 
tear on your dishcloth. 
BREAKFAST WHEAT MEAL. Wash 2% cups (1 pound) wheat 
kernels. Spread on cookie sheet to dry and toast in moderate 
(350 degrees) oven for % hour, Put kernels through coffee 
grinder, adjusting to fine if you want meal, coarser if you want 
grits or groats. Makes 3 cups. Store in cool place. To make 4 
small or 2 large servings and add concentrated milk values, mix 
% cup wheat meal with % cup dry milk solids. Mix to paste in 
% cup cold water. Add to 1% cups boiling water with % teaspoon 
salt. Stir over low heat 3 minutes. When smooth and thick, add 
a teaspoon of honey or raisins or other dried fruit or omit 
sweetening and serve with butter or cream as your taste dictates. 
DOORKNOB. 
If you have no pestle for pulverizing pills and 
bruising seeds, mashing herbs, etc., use a doorknob in a wooden 
salad bowl. 
If you live in the city you can usually get plenty of discarded 
crates for tinder, but unfortunately logs are expensive. 
News- 
paper, however, is cheap. 
If you haven't enough of your own, 
collect your neighbors’ or raid the nearest trash can. To make 
a log out of paper, roll the newspaper from the bottom up so 
that the length of the log will be no more than the width of 
the paper. Make a thick roll (a single Sunday edition should do 
it) at least 6 inches in diameter. Then fasten the roll by rolling 
it on the diagonal of two sheets of fully spread-out newspaper 
and tucking each end of this covering piece into each end of the 
log roll. You'll not believe this until you try it-—! didn’t—— 
but this paper log burns slowly and will stretch out a scant wood 
supply admirably. We use these in our fireplace when it is too 
damp to go out for wood. 
ENVELOPES, either the ones addressed to you or the ones 
and emphasize its inspirational value. | kind of like 
_ that idea. I’ve thought the same thing about the Whole 
_ Earth Catalog in general, which brings up an interesting 
_ question: if the ultimate test of a good manual is its 
aon pape Ot og te emg 
xX 
aie Co Be esinprinact wt 
parses ky 
bocce Sons scbiaedicMecdiasented 
ra 
Reon sedeoee 
_ success as art, does that mean that the ultimate test of 
a good novel is its uses as a manual? We'll see. Mean- 
_ while, here’s a good 95 cent how-to-do-it book that 
_ could be a help to you on your next trip, real or imagined, 
into the New Wilderness. 
secure 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman. Suggested by Jim Martin] 
from: 
Pocket Books 
A Division of 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
How to Live on Nothing 
Joan Ranson Shortney 
1961; 336 pp. 
$0.95 postpaid 
enclosed as postage reply envelopes with ads or the ones enclosed 
with wedding invitations, etc., should be re-used. Open addressed 
envelopes carefully. Turn them inside out and reglue the seams. 
Motor-driven equipment is an increasingly heavy expense as our 
homes become more mechanized. Most of us, however, pay for 
unnecessary appliance repairs through ignorance of how to avoid 
them. 
It’s not necessary to try to rival the skill of a professional 
repairman. Simply keep him away by knowing a few rules of 
care and repair. Car engines aren't the only ones to suffer strain 
in cold weather. A hard start strains any motor. Your washing 
machine standing on the back porch in a temperature below 40 
degrees F. must stand half a day inside in the warmth before you 
do the wash. 
If you keep your sewing machine in the cold spare 
room, apply the same rule. Even the motor-driven grinder out in 
the unheated garage needs warming before running. Vacuum- 
cleaner, freezer, and refrigerator motors all need warmth before 
starting. 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
_ Champagne Living on a Beer Budget 
/f your vision of an alternate life style includes a dome in the 
‘mountains, raising your own food and making your own 
_ clothes from homespun wool, you probably ought to pass 
this book up and wait til somebody writes Beer Living On A 
_ Bay-Rum Budget. 
_ But if you are pioneering in or near a city, and if money passes 
‘through your hands with some regularity; if, that is, you 
_ consider yourself what | have come to think of as a ‘suburban 
guerrilla,’ then Champagne Living On A Beer Budget would 
_ 
be ahandy tool to have around your camp. 
(Someday, after I’ve lived in the suburbs longer, I‘d like to 
__ 
write an essay about my vision of the suburban guerrilla. He’s 
a definite phenomenon. 
There’s a sizeable population of them 
here in the San Francisco Bay area, men and women out to 
enjoy the advantages of town life without paying the custom- 
ary penalties. Every suburban guerrilla probably has his own 
__ definition of himself, but my own sense of him is this: he 
_ 
hasa job, but nota career. He likes the comforts, but doesn’t 
ae 
_ want to go into debt for them. He makes distinctions between 
__ things that are good and things that are merely expensive. He 
may go in for elegance, or he may dig the funky scene. 
__ Hippies, after all, are urban guerrillas.. But hippies are kids 
mainly grooving on each other in special enclaves, and that 
isn’t quite what I’m talking about. I’m talking about people 
who see the possibility of a'rich and abundant adu!t life 
_ within the context of those same suburban communities 
generally condemned as such hopeless wastelands that ‘real’ 
__ life cannot be supported there. The suburban guerrilla | have 
in mind is one of the suburbs, as well as in them. 
_ He challenges the assumption that the suburban context is 
hard, absolute, impenetrable, like plastic. To him, more 
___ 
tike a piece of cheesecloth, full of holes to breathe through, 
He borrows much of his point of view from the orientals. He 
_ realizes that life goes on in the suburbs just like every other 
place, even if most of the people there are too blind and deaf 
to see and hear it. The guerrilla lives by his wits, one day at 
atime. This makes him alert and alive. He has a talent for 
_ cultivating the holes in his cheesecloth. One hole might 
simply be the way the world is at six a.m. Another might be 
first-hand knowledge of all the footpaths in the neighborhood. 
_ He creates his freedom here and there and now and then, and 
_ by diligence winds up with as much as any conscious mar 
-. . 
Bargain Living 
2 
Community 
and to wind in and out of, like a morning glory, or a pole bean. 
anywhere. His landscape is small and patterned, but there are 
discoveries to be made on it, discoveries that can feed his own 
life at the same time they are important to the culture. | 
know of one elderly couple that subsists almost entirely on 
the food they raise in their organic garden in the backyard 
of their home.in suburban Mento Park. As far as I’m con- 
cerned, the trip. those two people are on, the life they are 
proving possible, is.the most inspiring radical activity in all of 
San Francisco’s radical environs). 
One needn't romanticize his life as much as all that, however, 
to find the book we're talking about a worthwhile manual. 
Anybody interested in bargains ought to have it. It’s loaded 
with facts, tips and information-on good deals inall the 
important categories. Food, clothing, shelter; real estate, 
automobiles, household appliances, medical things, taxation, 
funerals, recreation, retirement, consumer co-ops, travel, 
babies, insurance, charities, and more. 
/t’s entertainingly 
written; yet the rhetoric never gets in the way of the informa- 
tion. 
The people who wrote it obviously want to beat the 
money rap.as much as any of us. They also want to live well. 
Their book will be of considerable help to other people trying 
to do both, simul/taneously. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
ow to Bay the Best fer 
; Champamne Livies 
Champagne 
Living on a Beer Budget 
Mike and 
Marilyn Ferguson 
ih A 
Beer Badeel 
1968; 247 pp. 
: 
' 
$0.75 postpaid 
from: 
G. P. Putnam’s Sons 
200 Madison Avenue 
‘ 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
For a dollar a year, you can subscribe to Our Public Lands, a quarterly 
magazine telling how to buy public lands, where to hunt, fish, or camp; 
also details of ‘Alaskan opportunities.” Order from the Superintendent 
of Documents, Washington, D. C. 20402 
e 
Finally we called eight establishments under Typewriters, Rental. 
For comparable models of a Smith-Corona electric portable, two 
companies wanted $25 per month; two wanted $22.50; three were 
asking $20; one, $15; one, $12.50. We finally rented a nearly new 
machine from a firm.that charged $9. monthly on a two-month basis. 
‘Overexposed steaks’ are a find for those who will literally look beyond 
the surface of things. The fluorescent lighting used in grocery store 
meat shelves darkens the steaks quite rapidly. Once a steak turns 
maroon, it’s usually marked down by 25 percent or so—and it’s fine. 
e 
Some expensive canned fruits, like Elberta peaches and fine Bartlett 
pears, can be bought in cans of ‘chunks and pieces’ for a fourth or less 
than you'd pay for canned halves. 
e 
Or, if you'd. rather, the National Association of Housing Cooperatives, 
Inc., invites your query. Address: 
465 Grand Street, New York City, 
N. Y. 10002. 
Latest information on new cooperative would be 
available from the United Housing Foundation, same address; or from 
the Association for Middle |ncome Housing, 217 Park Row, New York; 
or the FHC Company, 322 Main, Stamford, Conn. 
(FHC International, 
1001 15th Street NW, Washington, D.C.., is an affiliate of the FHC 
Company and helps develop housing cooperatives overseas.) 
e 
Homes in the paths of proposed freeways have usually been bought 
by the city or county and are rented on an annual lease basis until 
time for demolition. Friends of ours are renting a $30,000 home for 
$85 a month—until the bulldozers claim it. They sirnply called the 
city switchboard and asked to speak to someone about renting city- 
county-owned homes. 
e 
Homes being rented are often not due for demolition for eight or ten 
years. They’re bought up far.in-advance of need so there won't be 
last-minute snags or holdouts. 
e 
Avoid the cheap $10-$17 brake jobs advertised by some service 
stations and shops, At the price, the linings are most likely of inferior 
quality, and wheel cylinders won’t be rebuilt. 
e 
When: it comes to air travel you can avail yourself of bargains if you'll 
fly major airlines on weekdays, regional airlines‘on.weekends...fly by 
night...forgo the two glasses of champagne in first-class quarters...buy 
a ‘run-of-the-airline’ ticket on a regional western carrier if you live in 
the eastern half of the country..:travel to Europe in off-seasons...fly 
a triangle, with a stop at an intermediate glamour city thrown in for 
a few dollars extra...travel a heavy-volume, frequently scheduled 
commuter flight...forgo reservations and fly for half fare, on a standby 
basis, on at-least one airline...or register as a first-time airline rider on 
another and = make any round trip in the system for $25...buy a pack- 
age which wraps up hotel, entertainment, and air fare. 
To locate a Memorial.society in your area, or for bequeathal informa- 
tion, write to: 
Continental Association 
39 East Van Buren Street 
Chicago, |11..60605 
For $1, this nonprofit organization will send you A Manual of Simple 
Burial (64 pages). 
For 25:cents, the Continental Association will send you Memorial 
Associations: What They Are and How They are Organized. The 
association will also be happy to inform you if any societies are newly. 
active in your area. 
