Foxfire 
Probably no region in the country has been written about, “explained” 
and “interpreted” any more than the Southern Appalachian highlands, 
that mountainous area embracing parts of Georgia, North Carolina, 
Tennessee, Virginia, Kentucky and on up into West Virginia. And 
yet, no region is as little known or more misunderstood. Most of 
the writers and film documentarians who have paid attention to 
Appalachia have suffered from one social/economic bias or ano ther, 
or, what’s worse, a pasty sentimentality inherited from romantic 
writers of the John Fox Jr.-James Lane Allen school. Even native 
writers all too often fall victim to the same stereotypes and cliches 
that have marred so much of the reportage in the national media. 
There are, however, scattered here and there through the Appala- 
chians, a few small journals who are truly in touch with the place 
they claim to represent. And one of the best of these is Fox fire. 
Foxfire is a quarterly publication concerned with researching, 
recording and preserving Appalachian folk art, crafts and traditions. 
A typical issue contained articles on quilting, chairmaking, soap- 
making, home remedies, mountain recipes, feather beds and home- 
made hominy, plus regional poetry and book reviews. 
One issue 
was devoted entirely to log cabin building. These are not superficial 
“feature” articles, but definitive, detailed treatments of traditional 
skills and crafts that have come close to dying out of our culture. 
Foxfire would be a credit to a group of professional folklorists. 
But when you consider that it is edited and published by high 
school kids at the Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School in Rabun Gap, 
Georgia, it becomes impressive indeed. 
The thing | like most 
about it is the way these kids are looking immediately around them 
for their inspiration, instead of taking cues from New York and 
California. In their own way, these people are as hip and sophisti- 
cated as any young people putting out a magazine on either coast. 
More so, even. 
They‘re cooler, more adult. Next to Foxfire, 
most “underground” papers seem written by children shrieking at 
Daddy (or cops, or Nixon) because he wont let them smoke grass 
or smash store windows, Foxfire’s editors and writers (and some 
excellent photographers) seem to me as aware of what’s wrong with 
the world as anyone. 
The thing that distinguishes them from their 
shrill counterparts in the cities is the absence of fad, slogan and 
cliche as they set out to improve the world. 
These kids in Georgia 
are living in a real world, studying real things, and in consequence 
they are creating a wonderfully real publication in Foxfire. 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman.] 
Block cut » 
‘ 
Fite 
side 
shag 
les 
Nature and Art of Workmanship 
Seems like just about everybody | know is making things 
lately—pots & dishes & clothes & bags & belts & blouses. 
! read in Newsweek or somewhere that this is the New 
Rennaissance—Mebbe so. But it doesn’t fee! good to see 
a lot of home made things when they are also poorly made. 
Romanticizing the hand-made is a naive reaction to the 
problem of a machined-plastic environment. The Nature 
and Art of Workmanship /s an attempt to define the 
asthetics of craftsmanship in a classical scholarly mode. 
/t has clear insight and sound criteria for judging the 
quality of the objects that surround us without the 
blanket rejection of technology that is trapping many 
people in an alternative life-style of shoddy creativity. 
[Reviewed by Terry Gunesch] 
The Nature and Art 
fo) mYAYo)adnatelacsall®) 
David Pye 
1968; 101pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Van Nostrand Reinhold Co. 
450 West 33rd Street 
New York, N.Y. 10001 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
There is a very present danger that, as the kinds of medium-scale 
diversity which free workmanship used to impart to building 
become less readily available, what little can be had in that way will 
be over-played and in the end travestied. We do not want every 
piece of concrete to show board-marks, every piece of paving to 
be cobbled, every piece of masonry to be random rubble, every 
piece of brickwork to be left unplastered. There 4s a place for all 
those things, but such elephantine capers unaccompanied by 
diversity at smaller scales become merely ludicrous. What we want 
is diversity which begins at the smallest visible scale and develops 
continuously upwards from that; and even then we do not want it 
always and everywhere. Vitamins are necessary to life, but only in 
small amounts. Take them in large amounts and they make you 
ill. So | believe it is with diversification in workmanship. | do not 
suggest it is more—or less—than a vitamin: not a diet: not a 
panacea: merely something which, though we may not take 
much notice of it, we need to have. 
152 
Craft Design 
Craft 
POTATO CANDY 
stiff dough. 
any time. 
e 
the dasher movement: 
+ 
¢ 
Come butter come 
+ 
+ 
+ 
Come butter come 
FOXFIRE 
Gatctneteserattuitertcave 
ie ae 
See 
$4.00 /year (quarterly) 
Come butter come. 
from: 
The Southern Highlands Literary Fund 
Rabun Gap 
Georgia 30568 
Don't worry about the place- 
ment of the inside doors, 
e 
will be cut after the wall is 
completed, 
Can you wash your clothes in it? ‘’Yeah, you can. 
Just take that, 
y'know, like we used to——we took our clothes and put our soap 
on ‘em and rub ‘em and boil ‘em. People don’t do that now. And 
| ain’t afraid t'wash my hands in it! That there lard kills th’lye.” 
Why do you stir it so much? 
“It requires it. It wouldn’t make 
if you didn’t dissolve it good. You got t’get it thick like jelly 
y'know. Y‘can’t leave jelly ‘till it gets right.” 
Nature and Art of Workmanship 
Peel and boil one large white 
potato. When done, mash up 
with a fork, add a little salt, 
and pour in a box of confec- 
tionate sugar. This makes a 
Roll out on a dough board 
that has been well floured in 
a layer % inch thick. Spread 
peanut butter all over top. 
Roll up like a jelly roll (make 
two rolls if you like). Put 
this in the refrigerator. 
Cut with knife. Serve. 
The churner said the chant in 
time to the up and down move- 
ments of the dasher as indicated 
below. The arrows indicate 
a3 
+ 
. 
+ 
> 
Peter standing at the gate 
It is now time to choose the 
placement of the inside walls. 
If you wish to have a wall run- 
ning the length of the house, 
its first log should be laid in 
place next, 
run the entire length of the 
house, cut a log to that length, 
hew it down to 4" in width, and 
cut dovetail notches 
in the ends. 
Good 
Plate 3: Legs are shaped with a shaving horse and drawing knife. 
Choose a tall maple, the trunk of which is about 8 inches in 
diameter and slightly curved. 
This curve will produce the 
sloped back obvious in Figure 2. If you would rather the back 
be straight, choose your maple accordingly. 
Saw a 3'6" length out of the curved section of the trunk for 
the back posts; a 1'8”’ length out of the straight section for 
the front posts; and a 1'4’’ length out of the straight section 
for the backs. 
At the same time, choose a tall, straight-grained white oak 4’’-6" 
in diameter. 
From the trunk, cut one 16” length, two 14” 
lengths, and save the rest for splits. 
Quarter the maple sections to be used for posts. Split out the 
heart. Then round the quarters off using first an axe and 
then the shaving horse. 
(Plate 3.) 
If the wall 
is to 
They 
Branch Lettuce 
Mertile Lamb: 
‘‘Well, there is one kind we call branch lettuce. 
It's kindly a long leaf thing, and it grows in the wettest damp 
places like where moss grows. As it gets older, it has a red cast to 
it. And you take it and cut it up like you do the tame lettuce, and 
put your onions in it, and pour your hot grease on it. It tastes just 
like tame lettuce.” 
Ruskin said ‘If we build, let us think that we build forever’. Shall 
we say ‘If we build, let us remember to build for the scrapheap’? 
Shall we make everything so that it goes wrong or breaks pretty 
quickly? | think not. Men do not live by economics alone. There 
is a question of morale involved. A world in which everything was 
ephemeral would not be worth working for. There are overwhelming 
social and aesthetic arguments for durabiility in certain things 
even if, as we are told, there are no economic ones. These are: 
First of all, the things we inherit from the past remind us that the 
men who made them were like us and give us a tangible link with 
them. This is a thought to set off against the knowledge that life 
is short. Hitherto it has been inconceivable that any one generation 
should discard all the equipment it has inherited and replace 
it completely. That may yet become possible. Even if it does, it 
will still be imperative for each generation deliberately to make 
some of its equipment so that it lasts and survives its makers. 
Secondly, if you are making a thing so that it goes wrong or 
breaks, then, however honestly you state the fact, two other facts 
remain. One is that you are putting as little into the job as you 
decently can. The other is that you are in a fair way to force its 
user to spend his money on replacing that thing instead of for 
some other purpose. He may be glad to replace it, in an age of 
materialism and the passion for novelty. But why 
should we all be compelled to keep spending money on renewing 
Our car, Our cooker and our refrigerator? These things for some 
people are merely means to other ends in life. Why should be not 
save the money so as to pursue those ends the better: altruistic, 
learned or artistic ends, say? Things which are made to fail 
early should be made maintainable and reparable, so that 
aman who 
cares for something other than novelty and status-symbols can make 
them last his time respectably while he gets on with his life. 
Optional durability is what we want. 
