The World from Above 
Close-up glamor shots of the Earth. Mystery shots (What is 
that? What's our altitude above it, 10 feet or 10,000?) 
(Fold out captions tell all.) Good traffic flow pattern shots: 
surface anatomy 
of civilization. Not a bad compendium; 
it’ll do until they reprint E. A. Gutkind’s Our World From 
the Air. 
—SB 
The World from Above 
Hanns Reich 
1966; 88 pictures 
$8.50 Be 
stpaid 
from: 
Hill and Wang, Inc. 
141 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. ¥Y. 10010 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Cloud Studies in Colour 
/f you really don’t know 
clouds at all, there’s another 
side—namely recognition 
and knowing what’s going 
on in your part of the 
atmosphere. 
This lovely 
book of color photos 
and detailed descriptions 
can help. 
by REKBARE 
HERE Css (BRS RAE WEAKER 
—SB 
Cloud Studies in Colour 
Richard Scorer and Harry Wexler 
1967; 44 pp. 
$7.00 postpaid 
from: 
Pergamon Press Inc. 
44-01 21st Street 
Long Island City, N. Y. 11101 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Kalliroscope 
Nine square inches of divine turmoil. 
Rotating on its spinner or cooking on 
its stand, the Kalliroscope models the 
action on the surface of the Earth and 
in all the waves and fires and 
(probably) in your head. 
—SB 
[Suggested by 
Sandra Tcherepnin] 
Kalliroscope 
Viewer $15; stand $10 postpaid 
Available in white, red, 
yellow, green, blue from: 
Paul Matisse 
Kalliroscope Corporation 
145 Mian Street 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ST. GEORGE AND THE DRAGON 
Here comes D.R. Davenport, Divine Right he calls himself 
after that incredible stoned-out afternoon when the words Divine 
Right formed in the clouds above the meadow where he was 
lying in the grass looking up and breathing deeply in awe of how 
really simple everything is when you come right down to it; 
Divine Right he calls himself, D.R. for short, driving along the 
highway now through a dark and rainy night in his VW microbus, 
Urge. 
When all of a sudden Urge’s headlights pick up a hitch-hiking 
freak on the road ahead. 
| sure don’t want to pick that guy up, D.R. told himself. 
1 
wish | didn’t have to. He was into a radio talk show out of Los 
Angeles. This strange woman had called in to comment on dress 
styles and wound up on the Turner thesis and the American west- 
ward movement. 
D.R. was listening to her rap, even talking back 
from time to time, shaking his finger, agreeing and disagreeing, 
(but not too loudly; Estelle was asleep in the back of the bus 
somewhere and he didn’t want to disturb her). Estelle was another 
reason not to pick the freak up but, out there the poor fucker was, 
sitting on his backpack holding out his thumb, with a little black 
dog huddled against his feet. So. D.R. dimmed the headlights and 
turned the radio down and pulled off the road just past where tie 
guy was sitting. 
“Get in,” said Divine Right. ‘“We’re just, you know, rolling 
along, digging it, the windshield wipers, rain on the roof, this weird 
westward movement lady’s on the radio, how far you going, how 
long you been sitting out there?” 
The hitch-hiker hassled his gear in and stuffed it on the floor. 
He was a little old feller, just barely strong enough to lift his pack 
inside. 
But finally he managed it, and his dog Salvadore leaped in 
behind him. Salvadore didn’t even bother to sniff out his new scene. 
He just curled up on the floor next to the emergency brake and lay 
completely still. 
D.R. said, "Davenport's my name, Divine Right Davenport. 
Like, this radio guy says KCBR, sort of sings it you know, says 
KCBR, Wayne Dixon here may | have your name please? And | 
say Divine Right is my name and weirdness is my game, what's 
yours?” 
Meaning, of course, his passenger, who was pissing D.R. off 
just sitting there. 
D.R. was a word man, you see, he liked to talk 
and to be talked to, and thirty seconds into their ride together 
his passenger hadn’t said a thing. 
All he did was nod and grin and 
look at the wet highway stretching out in the long beams of light 
up ahead. After a mile or two D.R. was wishing he’d minded his 
own business and left the silent bastard sitting by the roadside, 
rain or no rain. 
He turned the radio back up. 
"all | mean is that genocide against the Indians was the 
official policy of every American President after Andrew Jackson.” 
The announcer was aghast. ““Are you saying our government 
had a policy...” 
“Absolutely. 
It’s a well known, | mean you're in radio, it’s 
common knowledge among informed people.” 
"It's common rumor, maybe...” 
“Rumor, hell,” D.R. said. ‘’The lady’s right. Every word she 
says is true."” He turned the radio down then and leaned across 
to stare at his passenger. “And I'll bet if you'd say something, 
it'd turn out to be true too, | know it would.” 
When the hitch-hiker didn’t answer, D.R. started slowing down. 
“What | want to know, fuckhead, is how you’re gonna keep dry 
when | dump your ass out in the rain about half a mile from now.” 
And when there was still no reply, D.R. brought Urge to a full 
stop, and leaned across again to look his passenger full in the face. 
He was surprised to see how young the freak was. 
Fifteen, sixteen 
at the most. 
D.R. was only twenty one himself, but the kid made 
him feel like an old man. He had a goatee of scraggly whiskers, 
twenty three long blonde hairs sticking out of various little blotches 
on his skin. His eyes were pale blue, streaked with red. 
"Far out,” said Divine Right. “Did you know you had red, 
white and blue eyes?” 
No longer smiling, the kid opened the door and got out in the 
rain. He left his pup on the flcor while he got his pack on, and 
settled his floppy, widebrim hat back on his head. Finally he was 
ready. As he reached in to get his dog he looked up at D.R. and 
said, “Did you ever read about St. George and the Dragon?” 
D. R. said he hadn't. 
“It's far out shit,” said the kid. And he closed the door and 
started walking down the highway toward where ever they’d 
just come from. 
Clouds 
Whole Systems 
