A Tool for Experimental Economics 
TOKEN 
In Las Vegas and Reno, tokens (called “tokes”) are the money 
of the casinos. On the tables and the slots they work like 
dollars. Turn your cash into pretty bits of plastic, and easily 
spend your plastic. With the forthcoming return of “silver 
A state mental hospital is a severe testing ground for any theory of 
human behavior. Almost every conceivable behavioral difficulty can 
be seen there, often in its most extreme form. Senile disorders, neuro- 
logical disorders, adolescent problems, employment problems, sexual 
difficulties, addiction, alcoholism, general disculturation, intellectual 
retardation, and neuroticism converge and interact in one community. 
To gaze upon this multiplicity of disorders and problems is to be over- 
whelmed by a sense of hopelessness and helplessness. Any simple 
answer that one might consider for the problems of one patient seems 
irrelevant for other patients. Theories of human behavior which have 
been so relevant in treating neurotics, such as psychoanalysis and non- 
directive therapy, flounderwhen encountering the institutionalized 
Psychotic. It seems that every type of explanation has al ready been 
Proposed, applied, and found wanting in its general application, in- 
dollars” (Ike dollars this summer), the token traffic may subside cluding psychotherapy, group dynamics, recreation therapy, voca- 
a little. 
In Nevada, tokens aid irrational behavior. At a mental hospital in 
Illinois, tokens have proved to be a powerful incentive to 
sanity. By putting the patients of one ward (a picked set of 
“incurable” or “incorrigible” ladies) on a token economy, the 
experimenters found they simply solved 2 basic problems of 
treatment—how to reinforce (reward) sane behavior, and how 
to encourage real transaction between a sick patient and the 
real world. The patients were paid for small items of self-care 
(grooming, bedmaking, etc.), for chores on the ward (filling 
the coffee urn, setting table, assisting nurse, etc.), and for off- 
ward jobs (cooking, clerical, laboratory, etc.). With their 
tokens they could buy privacy (personal cabinet, screen, rent 
on preferred room, personal chair, etc.), goodies from the 
commissary, leave from the ward, exclusive use of the TV, 
etc. 
The book, The Token Economy 
A Motivational System for Therapy and Rehabilitation 
Teodoro Aylion, Nathan Azrin 
1968; 288 pp. 
$4.95 
from: 
Appleton-Century-Crofts 
440 Park Ave. South 
New York, NY 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
is a dry technical book but sensational if you’re interested in 
miracle cures, social cybernetics, whole-system education, or 
experimental economics. It’s like an X-ray of economic civil- 
zation. The crazy ladies-—and all of us, once you notice--- 
are.seen to swerve their behavior enormously with minor 
easily made shifts in assigned values and transactional 
opportunities in the ward. Yet much of what goes on is 
determined by derived value, by what the ladies really want. 
They gain a power in their formerly powerless environment. 
I'm grateful to Jay Baldwin for telling me of this book. 
If a school or 
acommunity goes onto a token economy, they 
suddenly become much more of a single entity, more inter- 
related, and more distinct from the rest of the world. 
The closeness has little to do with space. One of the qualities 
of money is the way it spans distance and time. 
Companies used to pay workers in tokens that were only good 
at the company store. The company profited twice. That 
system inside out might be a community co-op which sold at 
tional therapy, drug therapy, etc. One feels compelled to do something- 
any thing—to assist this forsaken segment of humanity. One might 
feel that if only the individual could be made to talk out his problems, 
then some cure might be achieved. Yet, a large segment of the patients 
will not listen, much less respond, to any conversation. How can we 
achieve therapy by having the patient reach an insight into the meaning 
of his hallucination when there is not even sufficient motivation for 
him to listen to the therapist? How can a vocational therapist pry a 
Patient loose from his psychosis by interesting him in learning a 
vocational skill when it is not even possible to interest the patient 
in eating to stay alive? Where does one begin in imparting a sense 
of personal identity and worth to a patient that has been incontinent 
for 10 years? 
...Psychologists and psychiatrists alike have fled from this graveyard of 
Psychological theories, leaving only a small but extremely dedicated 
group of psychologists and psychiatrists to deal with these problems. 
The ratio of patients to psychologists or psychiatrists in a mental 
hospital, where the need is greatest, is often in the order of 1000 to 1. 
... The large mental hospital is a testing ground for psychological practices 
as well as theories. Any general procedure that is found to be effective 
with the great range of problems encountered in a mental hospital will 
probably find great applicability in many different disciplines con- 
cerned with human behavoir. A method of controlling the aggressive 
outburst of the destructive patient would seem to have great relevance 
for the control of criminal behavior outside the hospital. Similarly, a 
procedure that could motivate a vegetative psychotic who has been 
hospitalized for 20 years might be appropriate for motivating a high 
school dropout to return to his school. A procedure that motivated a 
withdrawn patient to seek out the company of other patients will 
probably have some relevance in building social habits in school 
children. A course of action which enabled a congenitally 
re- 
tarded child to function in some fashion should surely have some 
message for developing improved methods of teaching a normal 
child the multiplication table in a more efficient manner. From this 
point of view, the mental hospital provides a challenging opportunity 
to devise totally new psychological and educational procedures in spite 
of the adversities that such an environment seems to present... 
The procedure for adjusting the earnings for each job was in terms of 
supply and demand. Those jobs for which many patients volunteered 
were assigned a smaller number of tokens. The jobs for which few 
Patients volunteered were assigned a sufficiently large number of 
tokens to ensure the selection of the job by at least 2 patients. Periodic 
examination of the number of individuals who selected each job led 
to periodic revision of the number of tokens given for it. Other con- 
siderations such as the presumed difficulty or the duration of the job 
were not factors in assigning a given pay to a job. In fact, some jobs that 
were fairly demanding physically and that required about 3 hours through 
the day for completion, such as sweeping the floors, earned only about 
5 tokens since many patients volunteered for those positions. A job 
that earned a large number of tokens but for which there were few 
patients who qualified for it was the job of tour guide. This job 
required only about 10 minutes for completion yet earned 10 tokens. 
The procedure minimized the dangers of personal idiosyncratic evalution 
of what a given job should pay. If a particular job involved certain 
cost only to token holders, that is to sustainers of the community. features that were considered highly desirable for’a given individual, 
Reportedly, schools that have gone in for simulation games 
have had considerable success with economic games involving 
token money. They gradually expand from one class to 
incorporate the whole school and eventually the kids’ homes. 
/ know of no examples of tokens being used for economic 
experimentation. But how quickly you could establish a sub- 
economy, directly related to the big economy, yet differently 
structured. 
/t would be completely measurable, and therefore 
precisely adjustable. You could know exactly the relation of 
your mutant economic system to the normal, and gauge 
your wholeness and independence, or balance and success. 
As for legality, the only regulations I’ve been able to find are: 
your tokens can’t resemble US currency (that’s counterfeit), 
and they can’t have a dollar and cent value indicated on them. 
There mav be other regulations. 
One good source | know of for beautiful money is Remson 
Wood of Riderwood, Maryland. He makes diffraction 
grating disks with whatever imprint you want. Rainbow 
money, cheap. 
Subway tokens. Subculture tokens. 
oS 
—SB 
Tokens 
Communications 
the earnings for that jobwere arbitrarily adjustedupward in order to 
ensure exposure of the patient to that job..... 
Prices for each of the reinforcers were based primarily on supply and 
demand. Some kinds of reinforcers were necessarily limited because 
of considerations of space. Not all patients could sleep in the same well 
furnished dormitory room. The opportunity to go by bus to a near- 
by town was necessarily limited by the size of the bus. Because of 
time limitations not all patients could speak to the ward psychologist 
or the social worker as frequently and as long as they might care to. 
In such cases, the cost was adjusted upward to the point where the 
number of patients selecting the reinforcer did not exceed the supply 
of the reinforcers. If the reinforcing items or activities were available 
in a greater quantity than was being utilizied by the patients, the cost 
of that item was revised downward. Periodic and regular review of the 
number of patients requesting each item was made in order to assure 
the full use of all available resources and reinforcers. Some reinforcing 
activities had no limitation of availability.For example, as many patients 
as wanted could go to the movies and dances, attend religious services 
go on walks, etc. Consequently, most of these items were given a cost 
of only one token to provide maximum opportunity for the 
patients to obtain these reinforcers. Sometimes therapeutic objectives 
dictated that a given individual should be exposed to a reinforcer that 
he could not afford. In such cases, the cost to that individual was re- 
duced to an amount that was sufficient to motivate the individual to 
select that reinforcer. For example, at one time to encourage a mentally 
defective patient to have more interaction with the supervising ward 
psychologist, the usual cost of 20 tokens for an interview was reduced 
to one token. 
ECONOMIC$ 
Nineteenth Century Token Coinage 
W.J. Davis 
1969; Seaby, London 
... The primary function of the tokens was to bridge the delay between 
the response and the delivery of the reinforcement. The tokens also 
Provided an objective record of reinforcement delivery and permitted an 
objective check by the supervising personnel on the appropriate 
occurrence of the conditioned reinforcement procedure. Also, the 
attendants did not have to be concerned about voice tone or facial 
expression as they would if they were delivering a social or a verbal 
type of reinforcement. From the patient's point of view, the token 
provided an unambiguous indication of approval independent of the 
attendant’s particular mood or whim at the time of delivery. Further, 
the token procedure 
limited the need to discover what reinforced the 
patient when the response occurred. |t was necessary only to deliver the 
tokens and allow the patient complete self-expression of her individual 
preferences at a later time when the token could be exchanged for a 
wide variety of different reinforcers. (Ferster, 1961). Most important, 
the objectivity of the procedure guaranteed that the patient would be 
reinforced even for minimally useful responses, thereby freeing the 
attendants and the staff from the need to define what was normal 
or worthy of being rewarded. 
The effectiveness of the reinforcers program was not restricted by 
any identifiable trait or characteristic of the patients... 
Token (A.S. tacen, a sign, symbol): (i) A token in numismatics is a piece 
of metal, in size, shape, and type resembling a coin, issued usually 
without government authority, and generally at a time when coin of 
the realm is in short supply; it is intended as a pledge to be redeemed 
either in goods to the value it represents or in corresponding coin of the 
realm. It is usually of lower intrinsic value than a coin. In the Middle 
Ages base-metal spurious coins were imported into England from the 
Continent (see Spurious) and the brass jetons or Nuremburg Tokens 
(q.v.) would serve as small local change in the neighborhood of a 
monastery. Owing to the growth of trade in the sixteenth century, 
considerable inconvenience was experienced in the lack of small change. 
To remedy this, traders themselves started to strike small token coins 
in base metal. 
In the time of James I, the Government took things in hand, and 
issued Harrington farthings, as an official token coinage. 
These, however, were extremely unpopular. They showed a hand- 
some profit to the instigators and no small loss to those who had to 
use them. During the whole period of the Commonwealth no copper 
coins were issued, but an-enormous number of private tokens were 
struck by municipalities, traders, tavern keepers, etc. It is estimated 
that over 20,000 different types were issued from 1648 to 1672. In 
Evelyn’s Diary we read of the tokens issued by every tavern 
“payable through the neighborhood, though seldom reaching farther 
than the next street or two.” 
Such common inscriptions on them as FOR Y° BENEFIT OF Y° POORE 
show that they were essentially a poor man’s coin. They are usually 
circular, but square, 
heart-shaped, 
lozenge-shaped, 
and octagonal 
tokens are common. Penny tokens are known, but the usual values are 
halfpennies and (more frequently) farthings. They are usually dated, 
and give the name and town of the issuer. Often they bear the initials 
of the issuer and of his wife, sometimes joined by a “‘true-love” knot. 
In 1672 Charles II issued the first regal copper coins, and the making of 
Private tokens was prohibited by proclamation, in August of that year. 
(ii) Eighteenth-century 
Tokens. Between 1755 and 1769 no regal 
copper coins were struck. Halfpennies and farthings were struck 1770- 
75, but in no great quantity, and no more copper coins were struck until 
1797. In 1787 local issues by private companies and corporations began 
with the Anglesey penny and halfpenny (q.v.). About the same period, 
John Wilkinson struck his well-known ‘“‘Iron-Master” Tokens, bearing 
his portrait, and on the reverse, a steam forge. 
Eighteenth-century 
tokens 
abound 
in mythical 
types 
(Bladud, 
Prince of Bath, Lady Godiva), historical (King Alfred, John o’ Gaunt, 
Queen Elizabeth, Isaac Newton), contemporary notorieties (Nelson, 
Earl Howe, William Pitt), literary characters (Shakespeare, Dr. Johnson), 
politicians (Thomas Hardy, Horne Tooke). 
On the social side we find bathing machines, mail coaches, and ships of 
all types depicted. Some tokens are in the nature of advertisements 
(Lackington the Bookseller and his “Temple of the Muses”’), vendors of 
boots, gloves, umbrellas, fireplaces displaying their wares. Some are 
architectural in type (cathedrals, shire halls, guild halls, bridges, canals, 
town crosses, Newgate Jail). Many of these were evidently struck more 
as collectable curiosities and souvenirs rather than as currency. For 
this reason it is easy to find pieces in uncirculated condition. PRIVATE 
TOKENS were also struck in limited numbers by individuals as numis- 
matic oddities, and for gifts to friends. The large issue of regal pennies 
and twopenny pieces in 1797 brought the series of eighteenth-century 
tokens to an end. 
(iii) Nineteenth-century Tokens. As the Industrial Revolution swept 
over the country, so supplies of copper coins, needed to pay the thou- 
sands of workers entering the new factories, dwindled, and in 1811 a 
number of private firms began striking the larger penny tokens. Such 
tokens were declared to be illegal in 1817, though tokens of the Birming- 
ham Workhouse and Sheffield Overseers of the Poor were allowed to 
circulate for some years after this date, owing to the great quantity 
which had passed into circulation. Silver tokens began to be issued as 
early as 1804, but most of these are dated 1811 and 1812. They are 
mostly sixpences and shillings, though pieces of higher value were 
sometimes issued. (See also Bank of England Dollars; Dollars, Counter- 
marked.) 
In the United States large quantities of privately issued tokens were 
struck during the economic distress of the 1830’s (see Hard Times 
Tokens). Several decades later thousands of different kinds of tokens 
made their appearance during the Civil War because the official coinage 
was hoarded (see Civil War Tokens). 
Private tokens were widely used in Canada even after the introduction 
of official coinage in the nineteenth century (see Canadian Tokens). 
Coin Dictionary and Guide 
C.C. Chamberlain and Fred Reinfeld 
1960; Sterling, NY 
