Man’s Domain 
! scarcely believe 
it. An inexpensive, paperback, lightweight 
but complete World Atlas that skips all the political planetary 
persiflage and goes straight to the guts: climate, minerals, 
agriculture, population, languages, land forms, ocean forms.— 
all the remorseless factors that have been invisible to most of 
humanity until recently. Nice work, McGraw-Hill, you whipped 
Rand-McNally and Hammond at their own game. 
—SB 
Perici pes 
square mils 
ERR Ww ® 
3 
S ties > 
Re Pe 
RERCTR 
ERD Rage 
sine 9855 30% 
nebre: 
HMS BDS 
& Mitsonined sed 
wtimarione worse 
EM eS OIG. 
ese Tie ELOR E 
isk serie Sow 
Apia! tapos Boi Regeysien 
164,800,000 
The Times Atlas of the World 
“A world remade must be a world remapped.’ That intelligent dictum 
was issued at the end of World War | by Lord Northcliffe, then pro- 
prietor of The Times of London. 
He didn’t wait for someone else to 
do the job; The Times Survey Atlas of the World, with cartography 
by John Bartholomew of Edinburgh, was issued in 1921, and was 
recognized immediately as one of the finest atlases ever printed. 
The 
tradition has been continued, and the latest Times A tlas——the 
Comprehensive Edition——is the best place for an English-reading 
person to find where in the world something is located. 
The book 
also has a unique ability to convey the feel of the world, 
/t measures 
18” x 12%” x 2”, weighs 11 pounds, and contains 468 pages, of 
which 240 are double-page maps of superb accuracy and beauty. 
The index-gazetteer includes more than 200,000 entries, incomp- 
arably more than any 
other atlas of the world, and the entries are 
keyed not only by individual map coordinates, but by latitude and 
longitude as well (a feature offered by no other atlas). Despite the 
huge number of place names the maps are extraordinarily legible, 
and they are mercifully free of the pink-purple-yellow political 
emphasis offered by lesser cartographers. Some of the place names 
may look strange to American readers, because the atlas follows the 
rules of the Permanent Committee of Geographical Names. 
This 
supra-political body sensibly believes that places should be called 
what their occupants call them. 
In cases where the generic name 
is unfamiliar, the traditional anglicized name is also given, in 
parentheses. 
The Comprehensive Edition of The Times Atlas of the World is 
published in the United States by Houghton Mifflin Company, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
It is dedicated, by gracious permission, 
to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth ||, and bound in appropriately 
regal bright red linen, gold-stamped. 
It costs $57.50, and it will 
make anything else on your coffee table seem puny, as the whole 
world should. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Dr. Morton Grosser] 
Human Use of the Earth 
To get a handle on your future you've got to get outside your- 
self, because only from outside can you see your space-time 
environment whole. One way is to identify out into another 
culture, Indian or whatever (this is Jim Nixon’s idea). Another 
way is to take Philip Wagner’s trip into fascinated objectivity 
about Earthly doings. In this book he merges some of the 
best of geographical and anthropological perspective into a 
detailed treatise on the Earth as tool, how it is used and how 
to understand it better to use it better. 
—SB 
THE HUMAN USE 
OF THE EARTH 
PHILIP WAGNER 
The Human Use of the Earth 
Philip Wagner 
1960; 270 pp. 
$1 .95 postpaid 
from: 
Free Press 
Macmillan Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, N. J. 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
» be bought for just over 
— 
from: 
McGraw-Hill. Book Co, 
Princeton Road 
Man’s Domain 
General Drafting Co. 
1968; 75 pp. 
Hightstown, N. J. 08520 
2 
Manchester Road 
$3. 50 postpaid 
Manchester, Mo. 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, CA 94947 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A THEMATIC 
‘Man's 
4a. 
Domain mew 
ee 
WMO 9 
Meat Clrenener, 
NR Shonen este 
from: 
Houghton Mifflin Company 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, Mass. 01803 
Times Atlas of the World 
Comprehensive 1 Vol. Edition 
1968; 568 pp. 
$57.50 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Note: 
Karl Jonietz re- . 
minds us that Times 
Atlas of the World can 
$30 (delivered) from: 
Blackwell's, [See p. 2]. 
As we shall see, one of the strategies by which supplies of goods and 
services become available for actual use is the movement of the would- 
be consumers themselves to the sources of goods or services. There 
are even objects that act as containers of man himself, which move 
over land, across water or through the air, delivering the individual 
to the places at which he can obtain goods he desires, or where he 
will be served as he wishes. 
e 
The modern inhabitant of a commercial country does not make his 
world; he buys it. The material circumstances of his life are not the 
outcome of his individual encounter with the natural order, but arise 
out of his relations with the social order. 
e 
Those same features of the most complex‘human communities which 
indicate their ecological advantages also suggest an unusual degree of 
inherent ecological risk. Such communities are complex and delicate- 
ly balanced, and depend utterly upon their artificiality. They and 
the individuals in them are threatened by the same biological 
penalties that attend any highly specialize 
system or species. Their 
very technical perfection may destroy them in time as other high 
specializations have destroyed many former species of animals and 
plants. 
The individual organism must, on the one hand, be specialized 
enough in function to exploit some particular conditions in the 
habitat, so as to occupy a niche that no other organism can contest 
with it; and it must, on the other hand, possess enough versatility to 
adapt to any conditions of environment that may impinge upon its 
life activities. These two requirements may be thought of as polar 
extremes of a continuous scale, and every species may be placed 
somewhere along the scale between specialization and versatility. 
Some of the disadvantages of commitment to either specialization or 
versatility are overcome by aggregation of organisms into larger groups 
within the community. 
Divine Right’s Trip 
Our story thus far 
by Gurney Norman 
PART ONE 
———— 
hes 
ro 
2S 
DIVINE RIGHT’S BUS, URGE 
| was a fairly straight ‘63 VW microbus till Divine Right got 
me, a good clean red and white seven passenger job with five new 
re-capped tires and near perfect upholstery. The only bad thing 
that ever happened to me was the Muncy’s youngest kid use to 
puke on my seats all the time. The Muncys bought me new in 
Germany when the old man was stationed over there in the army. 
He was a Master Sergeant in an infantry outfit, a little old for that 
kind of work maybe, but he liked it well enough to volunteer for 
Vietnam when that war heated up. They brought me to the States 
when the sergeant went to Vietnam, and after he got blown up by 
a land mine, his wife Marie traded me in on a Falcon. 
Two days on a car lot is a long time when you're not used to 
it. It was hot and damn boring, so even though this guy Divine 
Right looked pretty weird, | was so eager to get on the road again 
| felt grateful to him for buying me, although it did piss me off 
when the dealer let me go for only five hundred and fifty dollars. 
Divine Right paid the man with cash he’d got from a big grass 
score that morning, and if | could whistle I’d have whistled when we 
drove away together. 
Which goes to show you how much | knew about freaks in 
those days. | hadn’t gone five hundred miles with that son of a 
bitch before I’d of given my fuel pump to be back on that parking 
lot. That bastard drove me from Boston to Chicago to St. Louis 
to Cincinnati without once checking my oil. | found out later 
he didn’t even know where my damn oilstick was. Drove non- 
stop too, all day, all night, the only time | got even a little rest 
was when he’d slow down long enough to refuel or buy a rat- 
burger. 
If his brother-in-law in Cincinnati hadn’t noticed | was a 
quart and a half low I'd probably have thrown a rod as soon as we 
hit the next freeway. 
D.R. doesn’t seem to like them much, but his sister and brother- 
in-law are nice people. Doyle understands about cars. He’sa 
mechanic, he knows how to take care of machines. He tried to 
tell D.R. about preventive maintenance, but D.R. was too stoned 
to pay attention. He was on speed that trip, out of his skull on 
ritilin and benzedrine. 
He told Doyle he had to split in order to 
make the Ultimate Rendezvous. Doyle said what's an Ultimate 
Rendezvous? But D.R. just grinned and started my motor and 
drove away. 
So you get some idea of where D.R.’s head was at. He was the 
kind of guy who never had the faintest idea how he affected things. 
He could fuck over a nice ‘63 VW microbus he'd just paid five 
hundred and fifty dollars for and never blink an eye. 
| don’t know 
what was the most humiliating, having my working parts ignored, 
or all that stupid paint sprayed all over my body. Inside and out- 
side, | suffered both places. 
It’s one thing to go around feeling 
bad because you’re low on oil; but when you have to look like 
a made-up whore it gets to be a bit much. Housepaint, Day-Glo, 
fingernail polish, you name it and | got smeared with it. Some 
times he'd pull off into the emergency lane of some big inter- 
state and start painting on the spot. Said God was sending him 
directions how to do it. Sometimes he'd pick up hitch-hikers and 
tell them to lean out the window and paint while he drove. By 
the time him and his weird friends got through | looked like a 
watercolor that got rained on. 
It was awful. 
But | survived. 
| don’t know how but | did. Well, yes | do know 
too. 
It was Estelle. There’s no doubt about it, that little lady saved 
my ass from the junkyard. She was one nice person, that Estelle. 
There was something kind of sad about her, it seemed like she 
cried a lot., But she sure knew how to be nice to an old broken-down 
bus. She’d wash me, and empty my ash trays. Sometimes D.R. 
would be too stoned to drive and Estelle would take over, and it 
would just be so fine, just me and her cruising quietly across the 
country through the night. That was the thing about Estelle. 
She understood cruising, she understood roads, and traffic, she 
knew how to flow with things in motion. 
| never did understand 
what she saw in D.R., but | guess it’s not my place to have opinions 
about people. My job was to carry them around from place to 
place while they acted out their story, and although I resented it 
most of the time | did my best. 
It was painful, but | do have to say 
that it was interesting, and instructive. On some level I’m sure I’m 
a better bus for it. | kind of wish | could have a voice in this 
narrative to tell my side of the story, but Gurney says there’s 
too many points of view already to clutter it up even more with a 
talking car. So this is the only chance I'll have to speak my mind. 
It ain’t much, but, when you’ve been down as long as | have, you 
get grateful for small favors. So goodbye. 
If you're ever rambling 
around down in the Kentucky mountains, come by and see me 
sometime. 
Bless you all. 
Urge 
Geography 
Whole Systems 
