Credit Union 
HOWTO BUILD A MONEY RE-CYCLING DEPOT FOR $30 
OR 
DO YOU KNOW WHERE YOUR SAVINGS ARE TONIGHT? 
Remember when they burned the Bank of America in Isla 
Vista, California? Well, they're burning it again in IV right 
now, only this time the Bank isn’t going to be able to re- 
build so easily. This time they’re burning it legally, in fact 
they've got a charter from the federal government to do 
it —— by forming a “credit union.” 
1V‘s Community Council has started the Isla Vista Commu- 
nity Federal Credit Union as sort of a money co-op. Mem- 
bers save there just as they would at a bank —— their de- 
posits earn dividends and are insured up to $20,000. But 
instead of lending money to defense-disoriented conglom- 
erates or agri-mega-businessmen, the credit union makes 
loans only to its own members. 
The idea is to build up the 
economic vitality and self-sufficiency of the Isla Vista 
alternative community by creating a co-operative “people’s 
bank.” 
Loans must be OK'd by a credit committee elected by the 
members. The money can be used for anything from buy- 
ing a truck to defraying medical expenses to paying tuition 
to financing a tractor. There doesn’t have to be collateral 
unless the loan is more than $2,500. A brochure from the 
Credit Union National Association suggests what kind of 
loan criteria are used: 
‘’For a community credit union, 
making loans on character happens to be especially easy, 
because it is a friendly association of neighbors. The mem- 
bers know each other. They do not have to investigate 
each other 
. 
. 
. Hence, whenever a loan application is being 
considered, the members of the credit committee can con- 
centrate on the question, ‘Will this loan help the borrower?’ “’ 
And because the creait union is a non-profit, tax-exempt 
association, it can make loans at easy-money interest rates. 
The IV credit union operates out of a corner of the Com- 
munity Council's office. 
It pays its manager $25 a week to 
keep office hours Monday through Saturday, two hours a 
day. In its first six weeks it signed up 120 members, with 
share deposits of $25,000. About $5,000 has been loaned 
out to members so far —— one loan, for example, went to 
finance the inventory of a text-book co-op. Another was to 
help a member buy tires for his truck. The credit union 
has contracted with the county welfare department to sell 
food stamps. The county will pay |V’s people’s bank $1.00 
every time a member buys stamps! Eventually, the credit 
union’s board hopes to do a bail bond service and finance 
co-operative housing. 
The Counter-Economy seminar at the Free University of 
Berkeley, which we co-ordinate, has formed an organizing 
committee to apply for a charter for a credit union of the 
members of the Free U. (Every credit union must be 
United Security Accounts 
WRITE CHECKS ON YOUR SAVINGS ACCOUNT; 
EARN INTEREST ON YOUR CHECKING ACCOUNT 
United Security Accounts is for real. Ask any banker. 
They all go tut tut and look envious. 
—SB 
United Security Accounts® are a combination of savings and 
checking accounts. Interest-bearing savings (4%%) serve as 
collateral for 15 to 45-day free check loans, with the obvious 
advantage that money spent is effectively earning interest. The 
accounts offer unlimited free checking with no minimum 
balance (a $100 deposit is required to open an account but 
need not be maintained); in return, you have to watch out 
for a few tricky features. When the free loan period is up, a 
loan starts costing you 9%, retroactive to the writing of the 
check, and savings are not automatically withdrawn to cover 
it. You can withdraw savings and apply the money to the loan 
yourself, though you may lose several month’s interest if you 
do; but the accounts are most satisfactory if you deposit 
enough each month to cover the previous month‘s checks. A 
deposit intended to cover a check-loan must reach the bank 
after the check has cleared; otherwise it goes to the savings 
account and the loan will remain outstanding. 
The checks come with an identification card and look quite 
distinctive. Probably as a result, they are almost as easy to 
cash as local checks. 
The bank says the accounts are released in blocks and are not 
always available. | don’t know how much trouble they may 
be to get (I had no wait at all). Don’t send a deposit, just a letter 
of inquiry, to 
Citizens Bank and Trust Company 
Chicago, Illinois 60648 
Duane Small 
Louisville, Ky. 
Far as | can see, you've covered Every thing but this: 
This check is written ona checking account which provided free 
Printed checks, free postage for deposits, free, comlpete monthly 
Statements that anyone can understand and...get this... Maximum 
Savings Account Interest on my MAXIMUM account balance. All this 
plus Federal Deposit Insurance. 
My account has been with them for years, and | won’t tell you how 
much interest they've paid me for my Checking Account money! 
Top that! 
' 
George D. James Jr. 
Unadilla, N.Y. 
Officers of the Isla Vista Credit Union go over accounts. 
left to right, J.C. Simmons (President of the Board), Rosemary McLeod (Chairman of 
Credit Committee). Mike Tejeda (Vice-President of Board and Chairman of Educational Committee), seated Marla Mercer (office manager). 
formed among a group of people who share a “common 
bond” —— work for the same employer, belong to the same 
church, labor union, fraternal, professional, co-operative or 
other association, live in the same community or neighbor- 
hood, etc. The class has laid out $30 in fees, which will be 
reimbursed as soon as the credit union begins to wail. The 
class polled its 23 members and discovered that all together 
they had $7,910 (11!!!) sitting in banks doing nothing so- 
cially, morally, existentially, or esthetically justifiable —— 
money that could be easily liberated and sluiced back into 
a community of friends and neighbors. This credit union 
will consolidate the economic resources of people who be- 
long to the Free U. and use them to fund potentially self- 
sustaining co-operative businesses —— an automobile repair 
service, for instance, and a dressmakers’ co-op —— by mak- 
ing loans to members. Ultimately it could serve as the 
clearing-house for a labor exchange that would make it un- 
necessary for us to be constantly handing each other 
government forms with numbers all over them every time 
the roof needs fixin’. The “People’s Bank” founded by our 
anarchist friend Pierre-Joseph Proudhon in Paris in 1849 
was, after all, designed to e/iminate money! 
There’s one problem with credit union loans —— they can 
only be made to members who are likely to repay —— they 
aren’t grants. The class discovered that Leopold’s, 
Berkeley’s non-profit record store, raised a $2,500 grant 
for a legal defense fund during the Cambodia-Kent State 
crisis by asking people to pay a “voluntary tax” of 25 cents 
an album. The class has discussed the possibility of collect- 
ing a “voluntary tax” at the credit union ——25 cents per 
transaction, say —— toward an “‘alternative community 
chest” that would be allocated by proportional vote of the 
membership to community institutions that won’t be able 
to pay the money back, like the Free Clinic. 
Atlas Shrugged 
This preposterous novel has some unusual gold in it. 
Atlas Shrugged 
Ayn Rand 
1957; 1084 pp. 
$1 715 postpaid 
from: 
New American Library 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
“Did you really think that we want those laws to be observed?” 
said Dr. Ferris. “‘We want them broken. You'd better get it 
Straight that it’s not a bunch of boy scouts you’re up against— 
then you'll know that this is not the age for beautiful gestures. 
We're after power and we mean it. You fellows were pikers, but 
we know the real trick, and you'd better get wise to it. There's 
no way to rule innocent men. The only power any government 
has is the power to crack down on criminals. Well, when there aren't 
enough criminals, one makes them. One declares so many things 
to be a crime that it becomes impossible for men to live without 
breaking laws. Who wants a nation of law-abiding citizens? What's 
there in that for anyone? But just pass the kind of laws that can 
neither be observed nor enforced nor objectively interpreted— 
and you create a nation of law-breakers—and then you cash in 
on guilt. Now that’s the system, Mr. Rearden, that’s the game, 
and once you understand it, you'll be much easier to deal with.” 
If you're interested in setting up a credit union as a focus 
for economic experimentation, write William A. Atkins, 
Credit Union National Association, 1617 Sherman Ave., 
Box 431, Madison, WI 53701. Atkins will load you down 
with literature and refer you to the local office of your 
state’s Credit Union League, which will send a consultant 
to speak with your group and, after the cash begins to re- 
cycle, supply all kinds of technical help and logistical sup- 
port. 
If you'd like to check out the Isla Vista Credit Union 
Newsletter, send a self-addressed stamped envelope to 970 
Embarcadero Del Mar, Goleta, CA 93017. 
While you're at it —— we're putting together sort of an 
“alternative economy cookbook” that will include reports 
of how people are getting and spending without laying 
waste their powers. Are you involved in some kind of en- 
terprise or other economic or post-economic behavior or 
thinking that is in the least bit counter-cultural, counter- 
economic, over-the-counter, under-the-counter or off-the- 
wall? If so, we'd like to hear from you: 
Craig & Alison Karpel 
COUNTER-ECONOMY 
350 West 57th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
See 
A VERY DIFFICULT DAY 
“Hello?” 
“Hello, Estelle? This is David Ray Davenport, the famous 
truth seeker. 
I’m calling to see if you or any member of your 
immediate family might have a truth to tell today.” 
‘Where are you?” asked Estelle. 
“Ahh,” said D.R. A good question. A very good question. 
Right now I'd say I'm cruising at about ten thousand feet. And 
what's that | spy below me there, off to the right, nestled ina 
little cluster of twenty-one thousand dollar suburban houses on 
the outskirts of Cincinnati? Why, | do believe its one of those 
hippie buses, painted up all garrish and weird, surrounded by 
children and a smattering of curious adult on-lookers. 
But wait! 
That curious on-looker smashing the headlights with his fists. 
That's no adult. That's akid! A two-hundred-pound, nine-year- 
old kid. And look! Oh my God! The kid! He’s gone wild! 
He's beating the poor hippie about the head and ears, he’s hitting 
him with a Pepsi Cola bottle. Help, help, someone! Someone 
call for help!”” 
“Where are you?” asked Estelle. 
“Mam, | regret | am unable to give out that kind of information. 
Heavy stuff is going on. Mad villains are everywhere. 
Insanity 
rules, and only a total clamp on all information will save the day. 
| can, however, reveal this much: my nine-year-old nephew is 
actually a dwarf with incredible supernatural powers. Only an 
hour ago, before my very eyes, right in my own hand, by god, he 
transformed a Pepsi Cola bottle into a turd. Imagine. A turd. 
It was awful. 
It was disgusting. And then, you'll never believe 
what he did next. There | am sitting in the back yard of this 
little twenty-one thousand dollar suburban home with a big piece 
of shit in my hand, and he says: you're going to have a car wreck. 
He lays this curse on me right there, he says, Motherfucker you 
are about to crash! 
It’s been really heavy, mam. 
I've really had 
a very difficult day. 
Business 
Community 
