Basic Photo Books 
| 
There is a lot of bullshit about photography; it is easily (and 
usually) a subject for egoistic subjectivism and it is much in the 
hands of the people that push consumption. 
But like any other 
art form, the thing is to shut up and get dirty learning, working 
feeling it. I’ve come this way and perhaps can help. 
There are 
- 
a few good books: 
The first book.is Chas. Swedlund’s A Guide to Photography. 
When I last heard the book was available from him (address: 
5019 W. Blemont, Chicago, Ilinois 60641) for about $5. 
It is 
the best starting book; it is as simple, direct and complete as the 
Domebook. . Women and children can use it. The mechanics of 
the beast are explained by a working photographer and teacher 
not by a streamlining book designer. 
Basic. 
It will get you out of the Popular Photography bullshit of one 
thing, one issue, another, the next. 
It will be enough for the 
person who wants a simple image— 
getting that consistently 
isn’t easy. 
So the beginning booklist is one title. 
There may come a time, though, when you wish to make love 
with it, form koan, fix energy. 
The process is capable; photography 
can be an art form with just as much subtlety of creation as 
pottery glazes, dyeing, weaving. 
Go to the index of the Life 
series on photography and look up the photographs of Ansel 
Adams, Brett and Edward Weston, Paul Caponigro (these are my 
favorites) and. . .and. . 
. This is the business of the fine print. And 
consider that reproductions almost always run a poor third to the 
original print. 
You can doit. 
Hell, you can do it to yourself!! 
You may want to do 35mm, perhaps large format— 
negatives 
4” x 5” up to 11” x 14’. 
It involves the use of the zone system 
of exposure and development. 
The knowledge won't be wasted 
even in 35mm. 
As for printing the negative you get, the more 
esoteric information comes largely from the same sources that 
will tell you about the zone system. 
There is one book (or 
rather a series) that has compass, the Ansel Adams series. 
True 
they were written nearly twenty years ago and are $5.98, but 
this man must know more than any other one (or many) person 
about da modemploi 
Some find him confusing but those who 
work his books find it the teachings of a master— 
semingly 
contradictory and incomplete but rich for those who will try it, 
work it, re-read it, understand some more, work some more. 
It is a book for application, not a neatly wrapped set of answers 
that spoil your appetite. 
The core of the series are The Negative, 
The Print and Natural Light Photography. 
There are others in 
the series. 
In The Print for example there is a chapter devoted 
to developers, on what goes in them and what those ingredients 
do. At the back is an appendix with a table of nearly twenty 
{ 
developing formulas that you can mix yourself— and play tones, 
print colors and contrast ranges like stops on an organ. 
Maybe 
there is space age chemicals in cans these days but a) lookit the 
man’s pictures b) I want to fucking know the stuff I work with. 
These books are the richest single source of information on how 
to fly with this set of wings; there is even a good part of The 
{ 
Negative devoted to “‘miniature camera”, i.e., 35mm and 2% 
} square. 
ACCESS. 
This man is a concert pianist, a photographer 
? 
and a master. 
See his photographs and books. 
He knows how. 
The Life series— 
it has the best set of pictures around, bar none, 
everything is represented. 
But I don’t digit. My hassle perhaps, 
but I find it a bit sterile. 
It is complete, complete,complete and 
very rational 
Streamlined. 
And the questions are generally 
posed and answered. 
Spoils that appetite like a jr. high physics 
book. 
For those interested in a specific tag end to chew on, to 
learn from— 
very little. 
Such a thing is not a tool but an 
intellectual candybar. 
How doI make platinum prints, eh? 
Where do I get the chemicals, what precautions do I take? 
Well, 
maybe you'll pick up on something— 
and do your seeking else- 
where. 
It does have a damn good set of pictures. 
If you wish your prints to last forever, there is the East Street 
Gallery permanence publication. 
50d, available from 1408 East 
Street in Grinell Iowa, 50112 in numberland. 
Says you might 
make it last 3000 yrs; I wish I was that important. 
For those who want to get into the alchemy of mixing their own 
funny chemicals, you can still order most everything through 
Kodak via your local photo store and get a week’s delivery 
For 
the really weird stuff such as Amidol or Pyrocatechin, try Dignan 
Photographic, Inc. 12304 Erwin Street in, yes, North Hollywood, 
CA. 
They also have an excellent publication, Booklet No. 8, 
Photographic Chemical Facts and Formulas. 
Tells you what 
chemicals do, is more complete and up to date (but is technical 
only) than Ansel 
$2.50. 
The Zone System hasn’t been fully explained yet. Minor White’s 
book 
is the most complete account, Ansel has some information 
about it in The Negative. 
Both of them are talking from the 
application viewpoint and it’s a bit like describing the Elephant. 
They don’t tell you how else it might be done (e.g. Minor 
figures development times off of zone eight, Ansel off of six) and 
why. 
Try Minor but pulleeez don’t get the idea it’s all that 
clanky. 
I’ve worked with Paul Caponigro: 
a lot of the time he’ll 
merely take one or two readings and make the exposure. 
Fast. 
Simple. And you get a lot more. room for creation, expression 
and like that. 
There is a book for telling you how to do platinum, palladium 
and gum arabic prints. 
Other processes, too, all of days gone by. 
Interesting. 
They’re powerful, could be a heavy trip if you’ve 
got the negatives to print out. 
A platinum print is a rich brown 
(notsepia) or glowing silver color and has an incredibly rich 
swimming misty depth to it. You make the paper, that is, make 
the emulsion and then coat a stock (of your choosing! ) with it. 
I haven’t yet done it but imagine it would be as hard as making 
DMT (which I haven’t either). 
And gum arabic prints are made 
without silver (it’s getting scarce and may disappear from the 
private market) and can be of any color (not just black and 
white). 
I don’t know the price. 
It is A Handbook for 
Contemporary Photographers by Arnold Gassen who is an 
| 
assistant professor of Art at Ohio U. in Athens, O. The 
| 
Handbook is distributed by Light Impressions, Box 3012, 
Rochester, N.Y. 14614. 
And for the technically minded, there is Todd and Zakia’s 
Photographic Sensitometry (Morgan & Morgan, publ.) 
($9.95 
list, I bought for $7.95 at the Rochester Inst of Tech. bookstore). 
This is a well rounded scientific treatment of light sensitive 
materials. 
Micro and macro physics, statistical mathematics, etc. 
; 
While it will tell you more than you want to know, it may have 
valuable information. 
For instance, the graphics-oriented person 
may wish to know primarily how to twist the crittur’s tail in the 
darkroom, being less interested in the reproduction of a visual 
experience than he is in the manipulation of the materials. 
This 
book would tell him a good bit about ‘effects’, as they’re called 
scientifically, that he could use. 
Good luck to make it happen. 
Stewart Dean 
West Cornwall, Conn. 
Camera 
Aperture 
Two magazines have consistently outstanding 
photographs, Camera, from Europe, has every 
issue a whole different kind of photographs. 
Of all the magazines we see at WHOLE EARTH 
this is the one that gets cut up and pinned to 
the walls.. Aperture, Minor White’s magazine, 
carries camerawork as a mystical too/, not O 
Boy! God!, but how to see and see until you 
see through and back. 
~SB 
Camera 
Aperture 
Allan Porter, ed. 
Minor White, ed. 
$14 /yr (monthly) 
$12 /yr 
from: 
from: 
Camera 
Aperture, Inc. 
C.O. Bucher Ltd. 
Elm St. 
CH-6002 
Millertown, N.Y. 12567 
Lucerne, Switzerland 
(Aperture) 
(Aperture) 
Duane Michaels, Camera 
Conclusions 
1. 
That the photographer is in a poor position to forecast how 
others will respond to his pictures. 
(a) Because he was there at 
the moment the exposure-was made, or at least thinks that he 
was there. 
(b) Because he assumes that as soon as his camera 
is paid for that the pictures emerging from it are his. 
2. 
The remedy is to learn to look at his own photographs as 
if they were made by some other photographer. 
3 
The remedy, if applied, becomes a discipline that separates 
the men from the boys. 
4. 
In learning to predict responses it is better for the photo- 
grapher if he has the direct experience of gathering responses to 
his pictures than to read extensively about such matters. 
It is 
better because the direct experience gives an opportunity to study 
himself and his work in relation to the world. 
(Aperture) 
On their way off the hill Leonard-stopped off at the homeplace 
to show D.R. how to feed and water Emmit’s rabbits and his 
chickens. There were forty rabbits in eleven hutches, and about a 
dozen banty chickens to feed, a half hour chore even when you 
knew what you were'doing. D.R. worked along with Leonard, and 
listened to him, he wanted to learn this work. 
But his mind was still on Emmit’s grave. 
e 
Leonard invited D.R. home with-him to eat supper but D.R. said 
he didn’t feel like eating. 
e 
He said he wanted to be by himself a while, and Leonard under- 
stood. 
e 
As soon as Leonard was out of sight downhill D.R. went back 
around the hillside to the grave. 
e 
A grave. 
e 
That is a grave. 
° 
That dark opening 
e 
That dark there is a hole in the ground for Emmit’s body. 
It’s 
Emmit’s body’s home now. We're going to put it in a box and put 
the box in that hole tomorrow afternoon and cover it with dirt and 
leave it there for years and years and years. Worms are going to eat 
his flesh and devour the casket, and in time even his bones will turn 
to dust. We’re going to plant Emmit here tomorrow like a seed. 
He's worm-food now. 
D.R. was sitting on the mound of dirt they'd thrown up, looking 
at the hole. Above him was his father’s grave, and all around were 
other graves of long-dead people who had sired him, and it was dark 
and overhead some early stars were shining as they had the night 
before, how many nights before? 
In the ground, D.R. thought. 
e 
In the ground. 
e 
Out loud, D.R. said: 
in the ground. 
e 
And without really deciding to in his mind, D.R. scooted to the 
edge, then bracing across the corner of the grave he lowered himself 
into it, and lay down on his back and closed his eyes. 
This is Emmit’s wake, he thought. 
e 
This is Emmit’s wake. 
| am waking here for Emmit. 
Photography 
Communications 
