Report From Gurney’s Organic Garden 
Part Two: Reward 
From the outset I was determined to avoid relating to the garden 
abstractly, in terms of “poetry,” or “ideas.”’ My usual tendency 
is to reduce my experience to metaphors, then render the metaphors 
in words, and I wanted to beat that rap this time. Food, chewed 
and swallowed, was what the garden was all about, and nothing 
less than that was going to satisfy. I wanted the experience to 
come alive outside my head, in the concrete world, and achiev- 
ing that of course was the prime reward. 
But the thing I’m pleased to discover, now that the garden is a fact, 
is that I’m not as nervous as I was about abstractions. Abstractions 
built out of other abstractions can lead to actual sickness, I believe. 
But abstraction derived from the concrete is like the other side of 
the coin, yin and yang. It feels good to talk about gardening, now 
that the work is done. Feels the best in a long time, in fact. Like 
dessert, after a good meal. It’s amazing what a little honest, sweat- 
producing work can do for a nervous head. 
So stuff has been occuring to me: 
talk, for instance. The difference 
in the quality of talk that grows out of true experience, against 
talk that grows only out of other talk. Talk among people who 
never do anything but talk, vs. words between people who have 
other things to do with themselves. Drawing room conversation 
dependent on other drawing rooms, against conversation among 
people who've just come in from the world. Political opinions 
based on other people’s political opinoins, against a politics grow- 
ing from the life you've personally lived. It’s all like the difference 
between a wax apple, and one just dropped off a tree. 
And this: rules. How we've all gone around crazy the past few 
years in revolution against rules because they are rules; discovering 
some rules that are bad, deciding all rules must be bad, so what 
the world needs is anarchy, Head filled with such cheap crap, 
then coming up against something like a garden, entering into 
the work of it as if: this is my scene; | decide the processes of 
this garden because I’m a free man and I’m going to do my thing. 
So you thing is to spray water around. 
“Express” yourself in 
water. 
It’s so... 
esthetic. The curve of the spray is so... 
poetic. /t’s a veritable art form, no less, the avant-garde of 
agriculture. Jackson Pollock with a green thumb. Spray here, 
spray there, spray all over God’s whole creation cause I’m going to 
do my thing. 
Well, do tell. Because what’s happening, the reason all those beans 
and tomatoes and carrots are, like drooping a little is that you've 
damned near drowned the things. And so you learn: 
the gardener 
doesn’t make up the terms of 
his relationship to the garden. He 
doesn’t invent them out of his precious head, change them around 
according to his petty whim. The terms exist before he gets there 
and they'll still exist long after he has gone. 
It’s like the plants are 
saying: “Give us none of your hip esoteric shit; we want water, 
and we want it in precise amounts, according to the varying root 
systems of each plant. We want fertilizer, and if you don’t know 
how much, find out. Find out about nitrogen, about phosphorus, 
about potash. For if you expect anything from this garden, you 
must know what the garden expects of you. 
There’s a reality 
among these rows, stuff is going on bigger than all of us, so 
digit. You are only a part of what is happening here. 
Fit your- 
self into the scheme. Abide by the law, and maybe you'll be 
pleased that you did.” 
Then this: pick up a radical newspaper, see a picture of the 
entrance to an Army post. Fort Dix, probably. And above the 
gate and the M.P.’s helmets is a sign that reads: “Obedience to 
the law is freedom.”’ It’s one of the philosophical highlights of 
the gardening season to read those words in political terms, and 
shudder; then read them again in terms of the natural world 
and think: how true, how true. 
From The Free You Volume 3 September 1969 
POR UU UUPOP ORT ORC RRR RRR | 
Sand County Almanac 
“Classic” it’s called now, because it was published in 
1949 and still has bite. Wherever the ecologist looks the 
world weaves a wild story. 
This one looked at Sand 
County, among other places, and was /ed to propose a Land 
Ethic. 
[suggested by everybody] i 
A Sand County Almanac 
Aldo Leopold 
1949; 295 pp. 
$ 0.95 postpaid 
from:Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
American conservation is, | fear, still concerned for the most part 
with show pieces. 
Perhaps the most serious obstacle impeding the evolution of a land 
ethic is the fact that our educational and economic system is headed 
away from, rather than toward; 
an intense consciousness of land. 
Your true modern is separated from the land by many middlemen, 
and by innumerable physical gadgets. 
e 
A thing is right when it tends to preserve the integrity, stability, 
and beauty of the biotic community. 
It is wrong when it tends 
otherwise. 
SB 
Solar Journal 
its sure hard to put a handle on this book. 
a strange overview, maybe, 
or fluid bingo. 
richard grossinger brings a gnat’s ass 
and a cannonball 
together, 
makes them fit, 
shows how they are connected, 
then takes a long skinny oecological finger 
and gently tweaks the reader’s nose... 
. 
learn from him. 
jd 
Solar Journal: Oecological Sections 
Richard Grossinger 
1970; 130 pp. 
$4.50 postpaid 
from: 
Black Sparrow Press 
Box 25603 
Los Angeles, California 90025 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
In the beginning there was only the unity of the Ice Sheet. Then 
followed the unity of the March thaw, and the northward hegira 
of the international geese. Every March since the Pleistocene, the 
geese have honked unity from China Sea to Siberian Steppe, from 
Euphrates to Volga, from Nine to Murmansk, from Lincolnshire 
to Spitsbergen. Every March since the Pleistocene, the geese have 
honked unity from Currituck to Labrador, Matamuskeet to Ungava, 
Horseshoe Lake to Hudson’‘s Bay, Avery Island to Baffin Land, 
Panhandle to Mackenzie, Sacramento to Yukon. 
By this international commerce of geese, the waste corn of Illinois 
is carried through the clouds of the Arctic tundras, there to combine 
with the waste sunlight of a nightless June to grow goslings for all 
the lands between. And in this annual barter of food for light, and 
winter warmth for summer solitude, the whole continent receives 
as net profit a wild poem dropped from the murky skies upon the 
muds of March. 
© 
| was young then, and full of trigger-itch; | thought that because 
fewer wolves meant more deer, that no wolves would mean hunters’ 
paradise. 
We all strive for safety, prosperity, comfort, long life, and dullness. 
So in his article on sanctity and adaption, Rappaport cites two 
essential tautologies: that every living being is connected to every 
other living being, and that the environment is so complex that we 
cannot predict the total.consequences of any action. So the 
supernatural world, in which all beings, visible and invisible, are 
connected by the great spiritual thread, in which the consequences 
are never seen yet always critical, is not just similar but identical to 
the natural world. It is science which operates with an imaginary 
environment, an environment it imagines it can control, in which 
it believes its own predictions, setting limits on just how far it will 
trace a poison or follow a river. Who cares if insecticide in lowa 
pollutes the Great Lakes, who cares if the poisonous wastes from 
the potato factory in Maine pour into New Brunswick, as long as 
the crud passes political boundaries? Who cares if the 
microorganisms are poisoned, the algae and snails choked, these 
are not men’s delicacies? Who cares about the supernatural, the 
world we cannot see? Who cares what happens to the skeletons of 
the fish after the fish are eaten, when every house has a garbage 
disposal; except during a garbage strike in New York the people 
forget that there is waste and the waste goes somewhere, 
motorboats killing off everything in a lake during successive 
Memorial Days and July 4’s and Labor Days? And every living 
organism shares in the consequences, and the consequences are 
collective, only civil wars says the astronaut looking down at Earth, 
only civil wars even as the hunter downs the bear, the fish are 
caught in the Bella Coola trap. And everyone is simultaneously the 
benefactor and the victim; we are all victimized by what we are 
made out of, by, in fact, that we are made out of anything. The 
consequences never cease but pass and rebound, and this is the 
story of light in the universe, a sun whose powers flood on 
beyond Earth, beyond planets, an Earth which receives the decay of 
other stars. 
NOTE ON SPELLING: Oeco/ogy is the etymological spelling of 
Ecology. The /ogos of o/kos is the Jaw of the house in the deepest 
sense: 
meaning the speech by which the house is known to itself, 
meaning that the house is subject to the proportions of its rule. 
It’s house rules I’m talking about, just and unjust, or finally JUST. 
| want to recall to you the house, of which planet is one aspect, 
language is another, body is another——house in the sense that 
oeconomy is the management of the house and Oikumene is the 
known, inhabited, LIVED IN world. 
LOOKING FOR DOPE 
Urge’s wipers wiped and wiped and wiped and wiped and 
wiped and wiped and wiped, and still D.R. could barely see 
through the windshield. 
It hadn’t bothered him the first few 
fours, but as the rain kept falling and the night wore on and his 
eyes got sore and tired, the world outside the windshield gradually 
turned into such a visual mush D.R. had trouble keeping Urge 
on the road. 
What Urge needed was a new set of windshield 
wipers, and what D.R. needed was some food and a good night's 
sleep. 
But short of that the next best thing of course was a good 
hit of grass to kind of bring things into focus. 
Sorry old bus, he said to Urge as he felt his shirt pocket 
for a J. 
And he meant that too. 
One of Divine Right’s convictions 
was that it was possible to turn a vehicle onto dope if only the 
right means could be found. 
One time just before crossing the 
Canadian border he’d stashed an ounce of prime Afghan hash 
in Urge’s crank case and Urge had obviously loved it. Within 
a mile Urge’s headlights had started flashing on and off, his horn 
spontaneously bleated tones of joy. 
At least it had seemed that 
way. 
D.R. was pretty stoned himself at the time and it may 
have been that those were only things he wanted Urge to do. 
At 
any rate, the bus began to cough and choke and gasp for breath 
after a while, and he’d had to take the hash back out. 
But 
that’s okay, Urge old buddy, D.R. said, feeling his shirt for a J. 
That's all right. 
I’m working on it. One of these days I'll come 
up with a formula to stone you with so fine, so right you'll think: 
divine. 
The joint D.R. had put in his shirt pocket was gone. 
All 
he found was a tattered book of matches. 
He looked in the 
glove compartment and felt in his leather-belt-pouch, but it was 
the same. 
So at a wide place at the end of a bridge D.R. pulled 
off the road and started to rummage around the bus in search 
of dope. 
“What is it?” 
“Shhh. 
Go back to sleep.” 
“What is it?” 
Estelle sat up and rubbed her eyes. 
She was in 
a sleeping bag, lying cross-ways on the mattress near the back of 
the bus. 
The bus wasn’t wide enough for her to stretch out 
fully, but there was so much junk scattered around there wasn’t 
any other place to lie. 
In spite of having to twist herself into. 
an S to lie down, she'd slept so deeply for seven straight hours 
that now she was having trouble getting her eyes to stay open. 
“Go back to sleep.” 
“No, I'm awake. 
Where are we?” 
“Fuck, | don’t know. 
Somewhere out west.” 
(continued) 
Connections 
Whole Systems 
