. if you take it too seriously. cee 
shas zeroed in on 
nas just plain ole daily living and they look to the 
for people who dig fashion as self-expression and not 
o-wear-when-and-why-not. They know that nobody 
have to think twice about clothes or how they look 
t as a whimsical, trippy kind of safe-valve, Put on 
‘ou feel and you can’t help but look beautiful. 
rint some good how-to articles, so you can pick up 
‘orts of old and new recipes, beauty and otherwise, 
ke you feel better by doing it yourself and enjoying 
all 
too. /f your insides are being energized and 
volutionized and beautified then those ole familiar 
ides just have to be getting better too. 
[Reviewed by Barbara DeZonia) 
$7.50 for 26 issues 
ription: 
East 20th Street 
w York, N.Y. 10003 
Me Ke It 
Make It 
ed quarterly, first issue, Fall 1971. 
ow to obtain, build, repair, recycle and renovate what you need. 
dicated to survival, economy and conservation. 
ice— $3.00 
will.also pay for suggestions and for articles describing projects 
u have completed. 
e idea behind the periodical we’re planning is pretty important, 
think. Here’s how it got started. I’ve been repairing, restoring/ 
ovating and building things from scratch for about 25 years now, 
and was interested in it for a few years before that. I'll try to keep 
it short, but things repaired include small and large appliances like 
hers, refrigeration, small engines, cars of course, recording and 
_ film studio gear, radio, TV, radio and TV station gear (I have the 
CC license), farm implements, steam engines and many more. I’ve 
uilt houses including all plumbing, wiring, finishing and cabinet 
aking, made portland cement and bricks from clay and limestone, 
« emicals, jewelry, gemstones, tape recorders, recording studio 
consoles, radio studios, potters wheels, tools of all kinds, freezers 
_ and refrigerators, underwater photographic gear and lots more. I 
: 
ve considerable experience as a machinist, carpenter, mason, 
_ electrical and electronic engineer/technician, teacher, blacksmith 
_ 
and 
technical writer. My buddies have similar backgrounds. 
tell you this, not because it’s some kind of a big deal— I’ve found 
t t anyone with enough determination can do practically anything 
i they want to if they take enough time— but rather to let you know 
here I stand and to support my belief that anyone who plans to 
publish or teach should know about the subjects they’re talking 
about. And it isn’t enough to have learned in an academic sense 
only— that may be enough for purely academic subjects, but 
actical subjects need to be supported by practical experience. A 
good way of learning a new subject is to tie it in with the related 
knowledge one already has learned/experienced— a craftsman can 
therefore learn in a very special kinetic way— by visualizing the 
subject as ajob that will be executed to yield a finished product. If 
lou project yourself into ajob, you can predict what the order of 
__ 
the steps should be and what problems might come up. I’m not 
_ putting down books or even abstract or academic thinking, but 
when 
I pick up a book that claims to tell me how to do something, 
it should really work. It’s happened to me and to everyone I know— 
and 
it must have happened to you, too— that after finding that a 
project from a book won't work and checking the work very 
carefully, you discover that the thing couldn’t possibly work no 
_ 
matter what, because the basic concept is wrong. 
Then it becomes 
lear that the dude that wrote the book didn’t try out the project, 
_ didn’t have enough practical work behind him to evaluate the 
project, and, worse yet, didn’t bother to tell the reader that the 
project was purely theory and therefore speculative. No good. 
You 
plan to end up with a working thing and instead you find yourself 
_ 
ima research project. 
Our plan is to describe projects that have been done so that the idea 
is 
tested and the usual problems involved in execution can be 
’ ee ees in a step-by-step procedure. 
We'll work up some of the 
projects ourselves, and we'll print articles from readers (paid for, 
of course) provided they are tested. 
We'll also run some abstract 
ings or propose projects, but these will be clearly identified. 
The 
project articles will be as concise as possible, but complete 
enough that a newcomer to the subject can be sure that it will work 
if done carefully. 
We want to avoid the kind of abstract writing 
you find in survey type books where you plunk down 10 or 15 
_ 
bucks fora book and get a text for an Animal Husbandry 101 class 
_ that tells you what a sheep looks like. Some books are really empty, 
and sadly, they may be the only thing available ona 
given topic. 
Others are written to the wrong audience. 
We think that home- 
eaders need infarmation that applies to their needs. 
in example: Instead of listing a catalog for coopers’s tools, we will 
an article on how to make barrels. It’s important to tell where 
2 tools can be had, as you have done so well, and it’s also important 
owhow. 
We will tell how an experienced cooper makes a barrel 
the classical way, where to get the tools and how to use them. 
fe will describe how to make the tools— pretty essential when you 
the prices. Finally, we'll tell how. to make barrels, using 
r 
people who want to make a barrel right the first time rather 
an making a lot of scrap ones as the cooper does in his apprentice- 
. This will apply to all of our articles. 
Max Pepke 
Kindred 
Community 
CauT/on: RAILROAD RipES May 
Putpiry Your HEALTH. 
T'was on the stretch of track be- 
tween Starkey, Nevada and Utah that 
I began to learn the dangers of the 
rails. 
I had been riding in an empty coal 
car with a floor that consisted of six 
large trap doors. Several dozen miles 
out of Starkey I picked up my pack 
and moved to another side of the car. 
A few seconds 
later there was 
an 
enormous clatter. The door I'd just 
been standing on had fellen open. 
Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
son of whole earth meets the mapleleaf mysteries 
and superpress, 
breeds with them, 
and gives birth to 
a beautiful babybeaver catalog. 
thats the script. 
—jd 
Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
Tracy McCallum, editor 
1970; 122pp. 
single copies $3.00 
subscription per year: $9.00 
ry mindless aud freak 
India Trading Co. Ltd. 
Locuted at 
113 Dupont St. 
Toronto 180, Ont 
Carries a complete line of all ingredients necessary 
in Indian cookery. Spices, flours, rices, Dahls, chut- 
neys, nuts, and vermicelli, Price list upon request. 
or a similar preparation. All reputa- 
ble dealers offer resoling service. 
Here is a list of boots available at 
various dealers (prices run about $40 
a pair except for Fabiano, which is 
$10 less): 
Leroux—Excellent French boot for 
real mountaineering. 
Raichle—Made in Switzerland, sev- 
eral models from mountaineering to 
trail walking. 
Pivetta—Italian 
boot sold in this 
country as La Dolomite. I own a pair 
and am well satisfied. 
Lowa—Very good all round boot 
made in Germany. 
Galibier—French, very fine work- 
manship. 
Fabiano 
— Light weight 
trailboot 
made in Italy. Good for women. 
Kronhofer 
— Austrian 
boot 
with 
hand-crafted features. egy 
Sitting or lying down in my cozy 
coal car was impossible. The freights 
have no shock absorbers, a fact I'd 
never noticed on slower jaunts. When 
a train hits sixty miles an hour, the 
fool who. attempts to sit is rewarded 
with a smashed ass. 
Garlio—inhibits peas and beans. Garlic ty 
very usefy 
elsewhere in the garden as a pest repellant. A tea made 
with fresh garlic helps against potato blight. Roses 
grown near garlic have a stronger perfume 
Onions—are good planted with beets and currots. A 
few camomile plants (1 
every 4 yds. of onions) are 
beneficial to the onions. Do not plant onions near 
peas or beans, as onions inhibit their growth 
from: 
: 
r 
The Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
SR 
Atlas and Gazetteer of Canada 
341 Bloor Street West 
S 
Room 208 
~ NOTE: BANK TO BE-_ 
$5.00 
=p 
Toronto 181, Ontario, Canada 
SLOPED AT LEAST 
yy 
Page| / 
From: 
\ 
Vi 
A brush dam 
Whole Australian Catalogue 
The first issue of The Whole Australian Catalogue should be out 
early in 1972. 
At present we are negotiating with a publisher; if 
they print it, they will distribute it in the U.S.; if we distribute 
it, you can get it from us at: 
Source Books 
121 Collins St. 
Melbourne 
Victoria 
Australia 
The price will be about $3.00. 
Purpose: 
We think of Australia as one of the last frontiers. 
In 
a country so vast, the possibilities for learning, experimenting with 
new ways of living, and discovering untouched land and resources 
are still great 
This catalogue is for people who live in Australia, and for 
those who are interested in or who want to immigrate to this 
part of the world. 
It is a guidebook to what is available here in the way of 
tools, materials, information, books, land and whatever else can 
help us to create a new and better environment. 
Contents: 
Dwellings: 
adobe; ferro cement; bark huts. 
Land: 
zoneing; prices; availability. 
Craft: 
weaving; ceramics; bush 
crafts. 
Aborigines: 
myths; culture; survival. 
Learning: 
experimental 
schools; useful tools. 
Ecology: 
conservation activity; use and 
misuse of land. 
Communications: 
music; film; T.V. 
Flora and 
Fauna: 
Australian native plants; animals; edible plants. 
Food: 
growing your own; beer and wine making. 
Immigration; jobs; 
acceptance of foreign credentials. 
Industry: 
access to materials 
for building, crafts. 
Communes: 
why, who, how're they're doing. 
Survival: 
in the bush, on land, at sea, in the air; outdoor activities. 
Meanwhile, we might be able to offer some help and ideas for 
those who are thinking of coming to Australia. 
Immigration: 
If you want to get a visa for travel only, there's 
no problem. 
Getting one for permanent residence is another 
thing. 
It can take 2 or 3 months, so you have to be patient. 
Also, they check lots of sources: 
your background, past activities, 
etc. 
Sometimes they refuse without telling you why. 
Memory Holloway 
David Matthews 
Queen’s Printer 
This has to be the definiuve book of Canadian 
maps. It comes somewhere between the gas station 
variety and (unbeatable) local topographical maps. 
The scale is 1: 2,000,000 and shows township lines 
along with all cities, towns, villages, and even most 
unincorporated communities. Up to date. 
Maine Times 
John Cole is not reporting on the whole earth. 
The state of 
Maine is his beat, and the results of his focus are obvious. 
Earth Times fo/ded the same year Maine Times soared. 
Cole’s weekly circulates all over the U.S., but his paper is 
primarily about Maine’s ecological problems. 
Maine Times 
is revolutionary in that it’s a straight business, dependent 
upon circulation and advertising revenue like most publica- 
tions; and yet, it takes no shit. If the Times’ editoria/ policy 
offends a potential advertiser, that’s the advertiser’s problem. 
Aside from its good work as a conservation news medium, 
the Times does a favor for us all by proving that power does 
not always rest in the hands of sons of bitches. 
The Times 
has been a central force in uniting Maine’s lonely, isolated 
little voices for conservation into a tough political fist. /t 
aint hippies they’re uniting, and Maine Times aint a hippie 
newspaper, although the Freak spirit obviously dwells in 
the hearts of these newspaper pros. The Times /ives at that 
difficult but special meeting place of overground and under- 
ground, with no apologies in either direction. So do a lot 
of other people, apparently. Maine Times circulation is 
climbing. Let’s hope it's 
s true, that as Maine goes, so goes 
the nation. 
—Gurney Norman 
Maine Times 
John N. Cole, Ed. 
$7 lyr 
from: 
13 Main St. 
Topsham, Maine 
