— 
+r 
Living With Your Land 
If you're a kid in a family that has some land this book will 
help you get family support for projects to encourage 
wildlife, improve the soil, build a pond, liven up the place. 
Aegs With Your Land 
John 
Vosburgh 
1968; 191 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
‘ 
Charles Scribner's, Sons 
LIVING 
597 Fifth Ave. 
WITH 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
YOUR 
LAND 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
JOHN VOSBURGH 
Exotic Aquarium Fishes 
More than 70% of the Whole Earth’s surface is under water, 
with proportional animate population, our ancestral home. 
Some people immerse themselves in this ecological dimension 
swimmingly. Others box a bit of it and stash it in their pads 
for observation, education, fascination, fun. Aquarists 
have been long aware of environmental balances and such, 
playing god. Aquariums are communes. How you keep 
your tanks will show you to be curious, careless, callous, 
compassionate, concerned, or what. 
The dean of American aquarists is Dr. William T. Innes, 
whose classic manual with its exquisité color photographs, 
updated by assistants and now published cheaply, unfolds 
scientific insight, practical lore, wry humor, and humane 
wisdom. 
[Suggested and.reviewed by 
Tom Wertenbaker] 
Reh PLUTON HEED 
Exotic Aquarium Fishes 
Dr. William T. Innes 
1938-1966; 590 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
E. P. Dutton & Company, Inc. 
201 Park Ave. South 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
“Missionary fish’’ would be a fitting name for this little beauty, 
for it far exceeds any other species in the number of convert aquarists 
it has made. And many of these converts who branched out and 
became aquarists in a big way still keep Guppies, and still feel that, 
with their infinite variety of colors, they are the most interesting of 
Plants and Man 
This is a terrific book about plants and agriculture. We 
haven’t seen the other books in the Nature and Science 
series from Natural History Press, but if they’re as good, 
they ‘ve got something. 
_SB 
Plants and Man 
H.L. Edlin 
1969; 253 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday & Company, Inc. 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, N. Y. 11531 
Birdhouse construction is booming. Some factory and do-it-yourself 
sources are pressed to keep the supply in pace with the demand. 
People seem to want birdhouses as badly as the birds do. Here is a 
gratifying and constructive trend. Obviously the clearing of a 
million acres of land a year for the suburbs is having its effect on 
nesting practices. At a time when urbanization is depriving hole- 
nesting birds of nesting sites, it is but prudent to fill the gap caused 
by the scarifying of the countryside and the removal of old trees 
and fence posts. 
It is also wise to encourage population growth of 
useful and disappearing species, such as practiced by Dr. Heinz 
Meng of New Paltz, New York. To bolster the dwindling sparrow- 
hawk population in his Hudson Valley area, he sets out large 
nesting boxes with entrance holes three inches wide. Thirteen 
of his 14 boxes were occupied in 1965. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
SZJ 
Ise 
Barat. 
32, 
RSS 
ZS Fy) 
COLOR PLATE PAGE 57! 
B 
Cc 
D 
E 
F 
The six principal types of maize. 
(A) pod corn, a probable 
ancestor of modern corn; (B) dent corn; (C) flint corn; (D) 
popcorn; (E) flour corn; (F) sweet corn. 
As food for humans, corn is infer- 
ior to wheat and some other cer- 
eals because it contains very little 
protein. The absence of protein 
means that cornstarch does not form 
gluten when it is mixed with water, 
and so corn bread has a rougher 
texture than wheat and rye loaves 
made from the ‘‘stretched”’ dough 
(full of air pockets) that gluten 
provides. Even so, corn has 
formed the principal diet of many 
peoples in Central and South 
America for several thousand years. 
Lebistes reticulatus 
(PETERS) 
all aquarium fishes. Each male is as individual as a thumbprint. 
Pronounced Le-biss”tees re-tik’you-lay”tus Popular names, Guppy and Rainbow Fish 
Besides its beauty the Guppy has other great merits. Scarcely any 
other fish combines so many cardinal points in such degree. 
It is 
a live-bearer, the most popular type of fish. 
It is an extremely 
fertile as well as dependable breeder. 
It is unusually active. 
It 
will thrive in close confinement. 
It can stand foul water. 
It hasan 
Trinidad, Guiana and Venezuela 
Length—male, 1% inches; female, 2% inches 
extreme temperature range of 40 degrees, from 60 to 100. 
It will 
take any kind of food. 
It does not fight. 
It is not timid. 
It matures 
rapidly, an important point for those aquarists breeding for special 
points. 
It is subject to few diseases. 
It can be had everywhere at 
prices available to everybody. 
The activity of the male is extraordinary. Whether flashing about in 
pure joy of living, or paying court to a female, he is ever the embodi- 
ment of intensity. 
He might well be termed ‘‘the playboy of the 
aquarium.” 
The specimens chosen for use in our color plate were selected with 
the idea of illustrating certain color features. 
Five of these color 
standards are shown. The fish just below the head of the female 
displays two of them. 
He has the “‘Peacock”’ or ‘’Lace”’ design in 
the tail. The fish in the lower left corner also embodies two definite 
points. 
First it isa ““Chain Guppy.” This refers to the irregular 
dark line from the head through the body. The eye in the dorsal 
also makes it a ‘“‘Birdeye Guppy.” 
The large central figure, of course, isa “loaded” female. The 
— 
gentlemen craftily approaching from the rear is in typical position 
for action, with his gonopodium brought forward for an instant 
thrust. 
In highly developed stocks some females appear not only showing 
traces of color in the tail fin, but also shiny highlights in it, as indi- 
cated in the single illustration. 
It is believed, but not certain, that 
such females throw youngsters of superior colors. Any color in 
female adds value to a show pair. 
Sometimes an individual fish, possibly of a peaceful species, learns 
that other fishes will flee if chased. This becomes a sport with that 
fish, to the misery of its fellows and the discomfiture of their owner. 
It should either be disposed of, partitioned off, (perhaps in a corner, 
like a dunce), or placed in another aquarium with larger fishes, 
where, among strangers, it may reform. 
Like the rooster taken out 
of its own barnyard, it will not fight so well. 
e 
Inequality in the size of youngsters always puzzles the beginner. 
None can tell why it is any more than in human beings. Some 
fishes are no doubt born more vigorous than others. They get ‘the 
“jump” by bolting the biggest and best food. Presently they become 
large enough to eat the smallest of their brethren. As these make 
the best of food, the disproportion increases. 
It is Nature’s way. A 
plentiful early supply of the small live foods tends to equalize 
growth. 
Nature 
Learning 
MEANING OF NAME: 
Lebistes, probably from Lebias (=Cyprinodon), and 
istion, a sail; reticulatus, net marked, or mottled 
Also known as Girardinus reticulatus, Girardinus guppyi and Poecilia reticulata 
Western Location Map x19 to A24 
Artificially introduced into many other locations 
Tropical Fish Essay 
Dear Sirs: 
Herewith is my essay about Tropical Fish for beginners. 
I obtained 
my information from The Innes Book of Exotic Aquarium Fishes, 
Copyright by Aquariums Incorp., Maywood, NJ. (19th Edition 
revised 
The hobby of tropical fish and plants is an old and fascinating one. 
The beginner however, must remember that he should start with 
the most simple and common types of 
fish to insure a successful 
project. 
The best fish for beginners to start with is the guppy. It 
ts colorful, inexpensive, and easiest to breed. 
In fact, it is almost 
too easy to breed. Most hobbyists end up with more baby guppies 
than he can handle. So the best thing to do is to buy only one 
female, and have a dealer ready to receive the fish when you no 
longer want it. The next easiest fishes to have are the Mollies, and © 
the Platys, orange or otherwise. 
They are lively and attractive 
and also inexpensive. 
But, if you are a beginner, do not attempt 
to purchase a soft-shell turtle, or frog or crab. My own experiences 
have led me to this conclusion. 
Soft-shell Turtles are prone to a 
deadly disease known as fungus. Caring for a sick turtle is messy, 
hopeless, and uncomfortable for the turtle itself. 
Water used in the aquarium should be treated with Di-Chlor, which 
nds tap water of its chlorine content. Make sure that the water 
temperature stays between about 67 to 88 for the fish mentioned 
above, but for other types of fish, consult your dealer for correct 
temperature ranges. 
The most common and cheapest plants are: 
Vallisneria, Cabomba, 
and Anachars. 
Vallisneria should be planted with the roots above 
the gravel, or the plant will gradually decompose and pollute the 
tank. One of the most common problems arising in tropical fish 
“communities” is the act of over feeding. 
This is the big mistake 
that many young aquarists make. Feed only once a day, and 
once ina while twice. 
You will just have to overcome the joy of 
watching the fish devour their lunch, breakfast, snack, dessert, 
etc. 
The other problem that arises is diseases. If your fish is acting 
jittery, or lies down at the bottom of the tank, he most likely is 
ill. Treat him at once by placing him in a jar with about 1-1/2 
teaspoons of salt, and 1 cup of water. 
(Float the jar in the tank) 
Then consult your dealer. But be sure you follow these guidelines: 
Do not overcrowd, do not overfeed, keep tank clean, kéep the 
“ConxscREW” VALLISNERIA 
“Innes Book” on hand, keep temperature between 72 and 81, and 
always watch out for sick fish. 
An attractive mutation from the tall Va/lisneria spiralis, but instead 
of growing from 15 to 20 inches and sprawling on the water surface 
xg 
ee 
of small tanks, its charmingly twisted leaves average only 7 to 12 
Elizabeth Collins, age 78 
inches. Very popular. Prefers hard water and fairly strong light. 
San Diego, California 
Submitted by 
