os 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
3elieve that man is about to learn that the most practical life 
the moral life and that the moral life is the only road to survival. 
4 
beginning to learn that he will either share part of his material 
ealth or lose all of it; that he will respect and learn to live with 
ther political ideologies if he wants civilization to go on. This is 
kind of argument that man’s actual experience equips him to 
iderstand and accept. This is the low road to morality. 
There is 
10 other. 
Pc wer is the right word just as self-interest, compromise, and the 
g 
her simple political words are, for they were conceived in and 
ye become part of politics from the beginning of time. To pander 
jose who have no stomach for straight language, and insist upon 
nd, non-controversial sauces, is a waste of time. 
actics means doing what you can with what you have. Tactics 
¥ 
those consciously deliberate acts by which human beings live 
each other and deal with the world around them. 
In the world 
give and take, tactics is the art of how to take and how to give. 
lere our concern is with the tactic of taking; how the Have-Nots 
san take power away from the Haves. 
or 
an elementary illustration of tactics, take parts of your face as 
point of reference; your eyes, your ears, and your nose. 
First 
2yes; if you have organized a vast, mass-based people’s organi- 
ition, you can parade it visibly before the enemy and openly show 
your power. Second the ears; if your organization is small in 
mbers, then do what Gideon did: conceal the members in the 
dark but raise 2 din and clamar that will make the listener believe 
that your organization numbers many more than it does. Third, 
e nose; if your organization is too tiny even for noise, stink up 
_ the place. 
_ 
Always remember the first rule of power tactics: Power is not only 
at you have but what the enemy thinks you have. 
_ 
The second rule is: Never go outside the experience of your people. 
When an action or tactic is outside the experience of the people, 
ne result is confusion, fear, and retreat. 
It also means a collapse 
communication, as we have noted. 
_ 
The third rule is: Wherever possible go outside of the experience 
_ 
of the enemy. 
Here you want to cause confusion, fear, and retreat.... 
_ The fourth rule is: Make the enemy live up to their own book of 
rules. You can kill them with this, for they can no more obey their 
wn rules than the Christian church can live up to Christianity. 
7 the fourth rule carries within it the fifth rule: Ridicule is man’s 
_most potent weapon. 
\t is almost impossible to counterattack 
_ fidicule. Also it infuriates the opposition, who then react to your 
_ advantage. 
- 
‘he sixth rule is: A good tactic is one that your people enjoy. 
Sy your people are not having a ball doing it, there is something 
very wrong with the tactic. 
S The seventh rule: A tactic that drags on too long becomes a drag.... 
The 
eighth rule: Keep the pressure on, with different tactics and 
ictions, and utilize all events of the period for your purpose. 
: ee ninth rule: The threat is usually more terrifying than the thing 
itself. 
he tenth rule: The major premise for tactics is the development of 
oe he eleventh rule is: If you push a negative hard and deep enough 
_ it will break through into its counterside; this is based on the prin- 
- ciple that every positive has its negative. We have already seen the 
“conversion of the negative into the positive, in Mahatma Gandhi's 
development of the tactic of passive resistance..,. 
_ The twelfth rule: 
The price of a successful attack is a constructive 
alternative. 
You cannot risk being trapped by the enemy in his 
sudden agreement with your demand and saying ‘’You’re right— 
we don’t know what to do about this issue. Now you tell us.” 
he thirteenth rule: Pick the target, freeze it, personalize it, and 
polarize it. 
. 
x at do | want? | want a spring...well, | want it to run the 
_ dial, the outside dial, and of course the real problem is how to 
a band out of this motion. Let me look at the motion 
sin. How do you get inside that spring? If I...if there were 
‘enormous spring...a spring as big as a house, and | hold 
onto it and it goes in and out. in and out. 
at happens to me? Well, let's see, I can put a little drop 
of ink on the thing. Now I wind it in and out. Look. If I 
et a spring big enough, as the spring tightens . 
. 
. the blob 
ink will move in... and out as the spring relaxes... 
. 
“Funny . . . now I have the feeling that this thing is on its 
completely outside me 
. 
. 
. that the whole idea is no 
mger .. 
. no longer anything to do with being mine, my idea 
(0) 
ing and tighten it up, it performs an arc which is exactly 
band I’m looking for [cf. Fig 4 (a), (b), (c)]. It’s amazing, 
d this is no longer 1... 
it's as though it was taken away 
om me, ... This must be what people mean when they say 
; you start writing a play and the people you've put in the play 
Just go on by themselves.” 
36 
{<) 
Organization 
Community 
_ operations that will maintain a constant pressure upon the opposition. 
see 
it’s just like flying now because if J put a spot on the 
e. 
to work at changing the world. 
—Hal Hershey 
Vocations for Social Change 
free /6 months (bimonthly) 
if you send a donation of $5.00 
from: 
. 
Vocations for Social Change 
\ Canyon, California 94516 
Wig 
Sa 
Economic Alternatives 
Co-op League, Carol Hall, 1012 14th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 
20005, publishes several pamphlets of how-to-do-it information for 
starting or managing a cooperative. They are: A Manual of Basic 
Co-Op Management ($1.00); To Tell the Truth, an outline of con- 
sumer information and protection activities ($2.75); and Co-Op 
Depots, an extensive how-to-do-it ($3.50). They also distribute a 
film, Changing It, about the establishment of a co-operative food 
store in the inner city. (Phone: 202 628-9000) 
Cooperative Services, Inc., 7404 Woodward, Detroit, MI 48202, is a 
big co-op service organization. They can help get co-ops off the 
ground. 
DE Vcorp, Don Newey, 26 Exeter St., Boston, MA 02116, provides a 
continuous buying club service to help consumers find better quality 
food and encourage the producers to provide better quality food. 
Anyone interested in either joining a buying club in your city or 
helping to organize one should contact them. 
Foundation for Cooperative Housing, 1012 14th St., NW, 
Washington, D.C. 20005. 
North American Student Cooperative Organization, 1500 Gilbert Ct., 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105, is a clearinghouse on cooperatives in 
the U.S. They have information on all forms of cooperatives: 
credit 
unions, groceries, laundries, eating clubs, etc., ‘’as long as they are 
cooperative”. 
In addition to their newsletter they publish a directory 
of cooperatives entitled Crashing in North America. 
Synectics 
An outline of a method for training creative groups and 
maintaining their creativity in the business environment. 
This book provides both the theoretical and experimental 
background and the practical details of how to put the 
method to work. Although written for use by business 
executives, the applications to other situations are obvious 
and important. Anyone attempting to create a commune or 
other group of people whowill work together creatively 
will find many useful ideas here. The problem of interface 
between the creative group and the workaday world is 
also treated in some detail. Extensive examples of the 
method in operation, and a lengthy bibliography on 
creativity. 
[Reviewed by Larry McCombs. 
Suggested by Jane Burton.] 
Synectics 
illiam J. J. Gordon 
1961; 180 pp. 
$1 29 postpaid 
from. 
Collier Books 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10022 
The Development of Creative Capacity 
, 
fag developing c7en 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
aethed 
ec 
wivtenns fo + 
sho pratilems 4? bu 
suite. 
the atts, 
aod aducatine 
William J.d.Gordon 
aah 
ee 
as 
, 
a 
Ae 
£ 
ee: 
Wise ee re 
Fr 
k earns 
its buck and a quarter in its sixty-pagt 
bibliography. the other three hundred pages contain infor- 
mation of use to potential and polite revolutionaries, people 
who know they should be doing something, but don’t feel 
right about generating unstructured change. structures and 
groups, rules and techniques, hints and helps for the gentle 
displacement of dinosaurs and pigs. like telling you to get 
medical attention for a bullet wound, put eggs water and 
baking soda on your face before the teargas attack, notify 
the media twentyfour hours ahead of time, watch out for 
chain letters; that you will get into arguments, and not 
to make the worker unwilling to be seen with you. 
The eee Manual 
The O.M. 
Collective 
1971; 366 pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
666 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Ecology action organizations should provide the following services 
to the community: 
a regularly distributed newsletter on what has 
to be done and what has been done; grievances and discussion 
meetings and community projects. Scout troops, women’s clubs, 
school groups, etc., are good places to plant suggestions for projects. 
Within the organization itself, utilize a storefront office as a place 
from which to (1) publish research; (2) keep a file on local polluters; 
(3) document the legislative records of local congressmen and 
representatives to see if they match recent eco-rhetoric; (4) publicize 
an environmental hot line which gives the phone numbers of govern- 
ment agencies in your area to contact about instances of pollution; 
(5) lobby for legislation banning the internal-combustion engine and 
funding good efficient mass transportation; (6) start an ecology 
food store which specializes in organic food, returnable containers, 
and minimal packaging; (7) in conjunction with the food store, 
establish an ecology counseling service which develops with people 
ways to run an ecologically sound household; (8) send out speakers, 
movies, and literature; (9) distribute birth-control information and 
devices (check the legality so you know the situation). Demand 
that abortions and birth-control devices be provided free; 
(10) organize boycotts against local or national firms which insist 
on operating without regard to the environment; (11) send out 
guerrilla theater groups to hold mock funerals for rivers and other 
dying resources or hold parades for clean air complete with balloons, 
gas masks, drums, and coughing participants; (12) initiate cam- 
Paigns to return all bottles, cans, and excess packaging to stores. 
Ask that it all be sent back to the manufacturer; (13) watch over, 
and fight when appropriate, ‘‘urban renewal”’ zoning, highway and 
airport projects, university and corporate expansion into surrounding 
neighborhoods; (14) set up “people's parks’ in abandoned lots; 
conduct neighborhood cleanups (with community consent and 
Participation). 
Guerrilla Theater 
Anthology of German Expressionist Drama, ed. Walter Sokel, 
Doubleday Anchor, 1969, $1.75. 
Brecht on Theatre, ed. J. Willett, Hill & Wang, 1964, $2.45. 
Commedia dell’ Arte, G. Oreglia, Hill & Wang, 1968, $1.95. 
Complete Plays and Prose, Georg Biichner (trans. C, R. Mueller), 
Hill & Wang, 1963, $1.75. 
Eyes on Mime: Language without Speech, Katherine Walker, 
Day, 1969, $4.95. 
Guerrilla 
Theatre 
Essay 
(pamphlet), 
San 
Francisco 
Mime 
Troupe, Dept. R., 450 Alabama St., San Francisco, Calif. 94110. 
Happenings: An Illustrated Anthology, ed. M. Kirby, E. P. Dut- 
ton, 1965, $1.95. 
Improvisation: Discovery and Creativity in Drama, J, Hodgson 
and E. Richards, Barnes & Noble, 1966, $2.25. 
Modern French Drama: The Avant Garde, Dada and Surrealism, 
M. Benedikt and G. E. Wellwarth, E. P. Dutton, 1964, $2.75. 
New Underground Theatre, ed. R. J. Schroeder, Bantam, 1969, 
$1.25. 
Organizing a Community Theatre, S. Seldon, Theatre Arts Books, 
$1.75. 
“Politics of Performance,” The Drama Review, and most issues 
of this quarterly since 1968. TDR, New York University, 32 Wash- 
ington Pl., New York, N.Y. 10003; $5/yr. 
Radical Theatre Festival, San Francisco Mime Troupe, Dept. R., 
450 Alabama St., San Francisco, Calif. 94110, $1.50. Discussion 
of the nature and practice of radical theater. 
Stagecraft for Non-Professionals, F. A. Buerki, University of Wis- 
consin Press, 1955, $1.50. 
Toward a Poor Theatre, J. Grotowski, Clarion, 1969, $2.45. 
Ubu Plays, Albert Jarry, Grove Evergreen, 1960, $1.95. 
Alternatives Directories 
Movement yellow pages. Pretty handy. 
os 
Directory of Free Schools 
1970; 30 pp. 
Directory for Personal Growth 
1970; 30 pp. 
Directory of Social Change 
1970; 30 pp. 
$1.00 each 
from: 
Alternatives! 
1526 Gravenstein Hwy, No. 
Sebastopol, CA 97452 
- 
ty, ae 
fat Se ey eee 
