—Gurney Norman 
~ 
" MAYBE THE LAST TIME 
come in dressed in my usual street business, leather, 
ints and shoes, whistle hanging out, Derner takes 
and his already stone face freezes even harder. 
it, Kesey, give me everything.” 
2 Usually they let the honor camp men take in any- 
xcept knives or watches. 
ything. | don‘t want you in there blowing your whistle.” 
ay, 
then, make me out a property slip.” 
ves me a steady unwavering stare through the bars. 
‘a scrap of paper from a notebook and slips it in the 
riter. 
Whistle,” | say. He doesn’t type. ‘One yellow pen.” 
t a property slip.” I’m worried about my two camp 
ooks is what we both know. 
put it all in the trough, he says. ‘‘In fact, strip out of 
acket!’’ He comes out of the cage. | take off my 
ather jacket. ‘Hands on the wall. Spread ‘em.’ He 
ves my feet a kick. ‘Now. Don’t move!” 
2 
frisks me, the whole show. Taking pens, sunglasses, 
vandkerchief, everything. And my two notebooks, wrapped 
e farewell card Stevenson made and the camp guys 
en. | get a property slip for this stuff.” 
‘While you're here, you do it my way,” Derner lets me 
~S 
know. No malice in his voice. No anger. Just stone 
formation and not to be argued with. 
“Okay then,” | hold up my two notebooks. Show them to 
ity 
Johnson. ‘Witness these?”’ And the rest of the men 
ng in the receiving hallway. “You guys check this?’’ 
hand the notebook to Derner. 
Deputy Johnson asks. 
“No, it'll be a book of it’s own.’ 
: ‘ou'll have to change the title then.”” 
— 
ee 
ae 
aie 
ae 
continues to glower, stoney cold unmoveable. ‘’Come on, 
fou think the rest of your book will come out in Ramparts?” 
still trying to keep up that ald front. One by one the Other 
guys show up. Derner has given them each the same treat- 
ment taking cigarettes, everything. 
“Sorry about that,” | tell them. ‘| should have been way at 
the back so you could have gone through first. But he saw 
my outfit and it blew his head so he had to follow through 
with the rest of you.”” 
“Yeah,"’ Boro says. ‘Stir clear of Kesey, he brings you 
nothing but trouble.” 
“Kesey!” Keys jingle. ‘‘Man’s here to see you.’’ Door 
slides open. 
| follow the turnkey to where Faber waits 
in front. He tells me I’m getting out at midnight. Who'll 
be here to pick you up? Who knows. 
And he wants to see my notebooks. 
I'm leery but | figure 
better him than Derner. ‘‘Go ahead.” 
“And you're to be in my office Monday morning at 10:30 
to sign your release to Oregon.” 
- 
| say okay. We talk a little more about the camp. | tell 
him that all the camp needs is support from Redwood City. 
He hems and hums. Asks me when | think The Book will 
be coming out. Who know? When it quits happening. ‘This 
talk will be in it. Our talk Monday morning will be in it. 
Your reaction to what you read will be in it. It will be 
finished when its all over.” 
And Boro shouts Kesey. ‘’Put this down. Put this down in 
your fucking book. A guy——me——a guy plays pinochle 
4% months with the motherfucking brass up there——4 and 
one half months——and one of the deputies misses a pack 
of Winstons when | leave and he calls down and asks what 
brand of cigarettes did Boro come in with. | mean, ain’t 
that cold, man? Ain‘t that a bitch?” 
Weekenders——bringing the Street in to tantalize you. 
You can be made to serve double time——now tirne and 
_ street-to-come time——even triple time which adds street- 
ago time and is called guilt. But the man who pulls straight 
time——now tripping is neither short or long but serves in 
Eternity and very close to paradise. 
More Weekenders. A Tank gradually burgeoning. ‘Hey 
Deputy, we already got motherfuckers, wall to wall.’’ 
Boro has a way of sniveling so it sounds like a banty 
crowing. 
Drunk tank full to overflowing 
Motherfuckers wall to wall 
Coming twice as fast as going 
Heads get big and the tank gets small. 
Dominoes slapping on the table 
Bloods playing bones in tank next door. 
Bust a bone if you be able 
Red Death stick it cood some more. 
Three days past my kickout time 
Ask to phone but don’t got the juice. 
And crime times crime just equals more crime 
Cut the motherfuckers loose. 
Will | make the Christmas kickout? 
Will commissary come today? 
Will they take my blood or take my good time? 
Or just rip my guts away? 
Some snitch has found my fucking outfit. 
They’ve staked a bull up at the still. 
They've found the pot sprouts | was sprouting 
At the bottom of the hill. 
They‘ve punched my 
button, pulled my covers, 
Blown my cool and ruint my ruse 
They rehabilitated this boy 
So cut this motherfucker loose. 
And the fish that angles for the bul! 
Let him off his heavy rod 
And you that suckers the gavel banger 
Cut him loose from playing God. 
Back off from Johnson all you peace freaks 
So he'll back off from Vietnam 
Cut loose the squares, cut loose the hippies 
Cut loose the dove cut loose the bomb. 
You the finger on the trigger 
You, the hand that weaves the noose 
You, you hold the knife of freedom 
Cut all the motherfuckers loose. 
11:30 
4 
After a long talk with Braun, soft-peddling in circles and 
coming in Contact occasionally——back to A Tank. 
Simpson: 
“I just don’t trust Braun. | don’t think he’s got 
any balls. | think he’s basically weak and | think he’s try- 
ing to build his image by associating with you, Ken Kesey.” 
a 
| know all that. But I’m also onto what he wants to be—— 
the strong thing he wants to be. And I’m willing to try to 
support that image. 
ena voice at the bars: ‘’11:30. Kesey? Yeah. You ready? 
. eady as I'll ever be. Come on then.” 
And into receiving where an old colored dude is excitedly 
getting into his clothes. Typing of forms next door. Ritual 
of red tape typing, gently typing at my chamber door—— 
The colored dude——an old shoe-shiner packs his work gear 
into a black cardboard box and ties it with a rag. His shirt 
is white and looks nice. His shoes are a sensational gloss. 
“What you in for?” 
“Oh | pulled a knife. Woman called the cops. Wasn‘t no 
actual fight. Well, | on my motherfuckin’ way . 
. .”” Picking 
up his bag and putting on his hat. 
“Yessir on my way.” 
“Good luck to you.” 
“Lost some weight here. Needed to. Met some good people 
too. All right now...” 
A young blood stops him, gives him his address. 
“You all better print it. That the only way | can read it.” 
“Take it easy now, Pop.” 
SUA high 
tateesrcie 
The kid leaves. ‘‘Damn fool tramp. Got some motherfuckers 
in this jail. Oh, I’m ready. City be just right. | get the 
right bus, that is.”’ 
Still no call to leave. He fingers a corncob full of tobacco, 
lights it, goes to lean at the door. “What the time?” 
“12 straight up,” the deputy says. 
“Oh, I'm ready.” 
“\f my people are there I'll give you a ride to the bus station.” 
“Appreciate it. Didn't sleep all night. | got nothin but time 
no way. What you in for.” 
“Dope. Weed.” 
“That ashame. That good green stuff. Make you feel good. 
If God hadn‘t wanted it on airth he wouldn't a put it here 
would he. That a stone shame. How much they give you.” 
6 months. $1500. 3 year tab. 
“That a motherfucking shame.” 
“Well. 
It’s done.” 
“| reckon.” 
“Rucker!” a bull’s voice calls. 
“| comin.” 
And I'm alone on the bench with his half-drunk cup of 
coffee, spoon still sticking out of it. His blues on the 
floor. The polyethelene bag his suit had hung in in the 
corner. 
“Ken.” 
© 1970 by Ken Kesey. All rights reserved. 
