Outdoor Survival Skills 
olsen assumes that you get stuck out there with nothing 
but some knowledge, no matches, food, compass, toothpaste, 
or magazines. scrounge the tools food and shelter. good 
bunch of pictures and diagrams. sort of a purists book. 
for someone who is thinking about stopping along the road 
on the way to work some day, and just walking out into 
the wilderness. 
[Suggested by W.H. Bayman] 
Outdoor Survival Skills 
Larry Dean Olsen 
1967; 188pp. 
$3.50 postpaid 
from: 
Brigham Young University Press 
Provo, Utah 84601 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
At least once in life, every man, woman and child should know 
(1) the feeling of complete dependence on the bounties of nature, 
(2) hunger and hardship, (3) the meaning of total self-dependence, 
and (4) the personal inventiveness required to wrest a living from 
nature. Each should have the opportunity to learn the use of his 
own two hands in making necessary items for comfort and survival 
in nature. 
Few of us ever depend upon our own skills and resources for our 
needs. We depend, instead, upon the manufactured items of our 
Survival Arts of the Primitive Paiutes 
This book is about people living in equilibrium with their 
environment. 
They probably had no words for garbage or 
waste because they used everything— cattail, tule, willow, 
rabbit pelts, buckskin, sagebrush bark, bones, rocks. Some- 
how the story of how they did it, which is told with simple 
words and ungimmicky photographs, reflects the expanse 
and serenity of the Great Basin environment and is beautiful. 
[Reviewed by Tony Mindling] 
Survival Arts of the Primitive Paiutes 
Margaret M. Wheat 
1967; 177 pp. 
$ 10.00 postpaid 
Survival Arts 
of the Primiti 
Paiutes 
from: 
University of Nevada 
Press 
Reno, Nevada 89507 
or 
MARGAKET M. WHEAT 
WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
Shoveling hot coals from the breakfast fire onto 
the small, brown pinenuts in the winnowing tray, 
she began immediately to bounce and turn them, 
keeping them in constant motion to protect the 
basket from becoming scorched. 
When the nuts hissed and popped somewhat like 
popcorn, she knew they were cooked. This first 
roasting leaves the meat soft and translucent. 
Trail Food 
Thought you might like a great recipe for survival food for anyone 
going off into the woods fora long jaunt— cross country ski trips, 
hikers, mountain climbers, cycle trips, snow mobiles, etc. It doesn’t 
spoil, tastes not too bad, and it keeps forever— well, darned near it. 
2 tablespoons wild honey (tame will do, but not the flavor) 
2 cups oatmeal (or bran or wheat germ) 
2-1/2 cups powdered milk 
1 cup sugar 
3 tablespoons of water 
1 package jello in your favorite flavour (I'm partial to rasberry) 
Boil the water and honey together, then add jello. mix dry stuff 
together, stir in water mixture. Mix well— probably with your 
hands. 
You might need a drop more water but don’t add too much— 
it has to be dehydrated. 
You might like to add a little grated orange 
or lemon peel. Now spread the stuff into a 9x 13 cake pan and 
put it in an oven at about 200 degrees. Leave the door ajar and let 
it “cook” for about six hours. Be sure to cook it that long or it 
won't keep. When done, let it cool and then cut it into 2” bars. 
Wrap them in foil and they will keep for years— Each is packed 
with energy— really one makes a meal. Ona camping or back- 
packing trip you can crumble one and add boiling water and have 
a hot meal. 
t 
Lee Cole 
Portland, Oregon 
ae eee 
ee i OPN 
fy 
time 
‘OUTDOOR 
> 
SURVIVAL SKILLS 
civilization to the extent that it would be nearly impossible to 
conceive of a life without them. We marvel at the ability of Stone 
Age people to survive under such adverse conditions as they were 
usually found. We envy somewhat their ability, and deep down inside 
of us we hold a secret fear that somehow, someday we may find 
ourselves in the same situation as these primitive folks. Even worse, 
we may find ourselves lost in a wilderness without food, water, 
shelter or even the know-how to provide them. We fear the though 
thought of getting along without our “gadgets.” 
When the boat was completed, Jimmy stepped in the center to form 
a deeper hollow. The finished boat was eight-and-a-half feet long but 
so light that it could easily be lifted with one hand. 
To play the game, two people on one side each concealed a 
pair of sticks or “bones” within their closed fists. One bone 
of each pair was plain, the other ornamented. The guesser on 
the opposing team had to choose in which hands the unorna- 
mented sticks were hidden. 
If the guess were correct, his side 
was awarded a tally stick. 
If not, his side lost a stick. The side 
winning all ten tally sticks claimed all the bets. The singers 
opposing the guesser shouted, waved, and beat the logs to 
confuse him, but he sat quietly, apparently oblivious to the 
distractions, concentrating on his choice. 
It is remarkable how 
often a good guesser won. Winners were never congratulated, 
nor were losers ever consoled. The game is still played in the 
Great Basin with stakes often running into hundreds of dollars. 
Survival Equipment 
Yerger’s Supplies, Box 8138, Anchorage, Alaska 99504. Catalog 
contains Air Force Survival Equipment selections for light aircraft. 
Survival Equipment Company, Division of Victor Tool Company, 
Oley, Pennsylvania 19547. Survival equipment for aircraft owners 
and pilots. 
Kits, tools, 
& books. Everything from a one-man life 
raft model PK—2 at $123.00 to an orange smoke bomb for $2.25. 
In sixteen pages this is a very complete survival equipment company. 
Many kits are useful for any wilderness traveler on foot or horse- 
back, or river float trip. 
Northwest Wilderness Survival Schools, Life Support Technology, Inc., 
4530 SE Roswell Street, Portland, Oregon 97206. Summer Sessions 
$60.00. One week. They also have survival kits for snowmobiles 
along with a film on winter survival available for rent. 
Survival Research Laboratories, 17 Marland Road, Colorado Springs, 
Colorado 80906. 
A. \|ndividual one man three day survival kit designed for the average 
Cross Country flight. 
$37.85 
B. “Trail Kit’ for the shirt pocket 
3.85 
C. Special information about Alaska and Canada 
Earl Palmer 
Corvallis, Oregon 
Survival Documents 
Are you onto a book outfit in Glendale, Az, called The Adobe 
Hacienda; They furnish an assortment of Survival, Herbal, Medical, 
Military documents and books, and their mail-order service ts 
superior. 
This outfit seems to be somewhere right of the Birch 
Bunch, and some of their offerings are pretty scary. Nonetheless 
they inadvertently (what right-type would do such a thing vertantly?) 
feed the needs and/or curiosities of The People as well. 
Their 
address is: Rt 3, Box 517, Glendale, AZ, 85301. 
S. Stanton 
Pacific Grove, CA 
BONE 
The 10 Bushcraft Books 
_. 
. it’s sort of a how-to-do-it-in-Australia, which turned me 
off at first until | read it a little more thoroughly. The 
problem with most books on this subject which are available 
in this country is that they are basically diletante’s manuals; 
they tell you how to live in the open for a week or two, 
but always presuppose that sooner or later you’re going to 
go back to your Telegraph Hill apartment and take a nice 
hot shower. Australia, however, is a different scene, more 
like the U.S. a hundred years ago, when quite large numbers 
of people were accustomed, for various reasons, to living 
out of doors for most of the year. And that, | take it, is 
what more and more of our brothers and sisters are doing 
or thinking about doing (or have to do.) 
[Suggested and reviewed by Roland Jacopetti] 
The Ten Bushcraft Books 
Richard Graves 
300pp. 
$1 0.30 postpaid 
from: 
Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd. 
Sydney 2000, Australia 
THE 10 BUSHCRAFT BOOKS are: 
Book 
1. 
Ropes & Cords 
Book 6. 
Knots & Lashings 
Book 2. 
Huts & Thatching 
Book 7. 
Tracks & Lures 
Book 3. 
Campcraft 
Book 8. 
Snares & Traps 
Book 4. 
Food & Water 
Book 9. 
Travel & Gear 
Book 5. 
Firemaking 
Book 10. Time & Direction 
a ns 
Qe 
ees 
Se 
ies 
A TOOTHLESS MOUTH 
Half a mile up Trace Fork from the store D.R. stopped to 
hide and rest a while behind a rusted hulk that used to be a 47 
Ford. There was a four-room house with the roof caved in half- 
hidden in the weeds behind he might have gone to, but D.R. was 
scared to go to places he couldn’t make out clearly with his eyes. 
He hadn‘t seen David behind, or heard him, in several minutes 
now, but he knew that he was somewhere close around. 
David 
had been right behind him the first several hundred yards, but 
then D.R. had left the road and plunged over the bank into Trace 
Fork creek and David hadn't followed. 
D.R. didn’t stay in the 
creek. The banks were thick with weeds for David to hide in, 
and the water was slimy-yellow from the strip mining operations 
at the headwaters. 
D.R. slogged up the creek for perhaps a 
hundred yards, then scrambled up the bank again and hid behind 
the corpse of the old car. 
D.R. knew he was close to the homeplace now, but the hollow 
the creek flowed through had been so disfigured by the strip 
mining he didn’t see a feature on the landscape that he recognized. 
The ridges where the Trace Fork waters gathered were so uniformly 
scarred they looked like rims of craters on the moon. The guts 
of entire mountains had been ripped out and strewn about like 
so much worthless slop. Every roll and fold, every feature of the 
drainage that might have framed a context and established where 
the homeplace was had been torn away by bulldozers or smothered 
by fathoms of overburden. A slope that might have been the 
lower pasture on the homeplace was littered by shattered rocks 
and jagged ends of broken trees sticking up like legs of mules 
slaughtered in some awful no-man’s land. 
D.R. heard a snapping noise behind, then David yelling, 
‘Hey! D.R.! Where are you?” 
His voice came from the old abandoned house not fifty yards 
away. 
It was as if the house itself had yelled. 
Its vacant windows 
were like eyes of some old dead man; its door a toothless mouth 
that never closed. ‘Wait up for me, okay?” yelled the mouth 
as David stepped through it and headed through the weeds toward 
D.R.'s hiding place. 
Survival 
Nomadics 
