The Iilustrated Hassle-Free 
Make Your Own Clothes Book 
We have a new game in our commune which consists of 
shouting, at appropriate moments, such inventions as 
“Right arm!”, “Outta touch!” and the like. Revolution 
takes all sorts of forms these days, & making your own 
clothes is one way to play fiddle-fuck-around with fashion- 
sexism, consumption-pushing, & related evils. Not to 
mention such personal benefits as being comfortable, 
feeling good, & looking however you want to. This simple 
& charming book sure seems to give you all the basic infor- 
mation you'll need to get into it, plus numerous patterns 
& ideas. And probably sufficient inspiration to carry you 
into lots of new creations on your own. Outta style! Right 
size! and so forth. 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart] 
Note: The price on this nice book is ridiculous. 
Wait for the $1.95 
paperback in 1972. 
The Illustrated Hassle-Free 
Make Your Own Clothes Book 
Sharon Rosenberg, Joan Wiener 
1971; 154 pp. 
$7.95 Postpaid 
from: 
Straight Arrow 
World Publishing Company 
110 E. 59th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10002 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ag espedrille$ 
Sharon was in Formentera without a pair of shoes and the sand so 
hot on her feet. Under the porch of Mark and Juilia’s house was an 
abandoned pair of espadrilles with a hole in the right toe. They 
fit but she didn’t dig the hole. She sewed it up with some wool 
Julia gave her but thought, ‘That looks silly.’” Unbekrownst to 
her, she had used the Overcast Stitch (see p. 17). So, what she did 
next was sew a flower onto the shoe. This was her first-attempt at 
embroidery. Then she sewed a butterfly on the left toe to balance 
out the effect. When the espadrilles wore to nothing, she put the 
butterfly in a plastic bag which sits in our sewing room in San 
Francisco. 
e 
At some time or other, everyone has had an indispensable pair of 
pants——jeans or chinos. And just like Roy Rogers when Trigger 
died, they are loathe to part with them until the irreversable 
moment when these pants rip at the knee. Rather than stuffing them 
—as was Trigger’s alleged fate——the pants can be turned into cut- 
offs by a mere snipping off at the knee. This, then, is re-cycling in 
its most common incarnation. Just as organic wastes are re-cycled, 
clothing scraps can be used again, old clothes can be magically 
transformed by a bit of imaginative remodeling, rips can be repaired 
and all sorts of things can be re-made into perfectly pleasureable, 
wearable garments without having to be thrown out. 
Mariposa Codpiece 
Enough of these stupid blouses. Sew a sensible codpiece. 
Sew a feather on it. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Anthony Dubovsky] 
Codpiece pattern (with history) 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
The Giant Dwarf 
Box 77011 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
Sincere’s Sewing Machine Service Book 
Get an old Singer. Among new machines people seem to 
favor Viking, Elna, or Bernina. 
Just thought you'd like to know there’s a sewing machine 
fixit book. 
Sincere’s Sewing Machine Service Book 
William Ewers 
1968, 1970; 205 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
Sincere Press 
Box 10422 
Phoenix, Arizona 85018 
Sewing 
Craft 
Coats & Clark’s Sewing Book 
There’s a lot of sewing books. 
This is the-best one. Good 
information, best price. 
Coats & Clark’s Sewing Book 
1967; 224 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Golden Press, Inc. 
850 Third Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Sewing 
Successful Sewing 
1. Contains a good list of equipment with reasons for having 
each item. 
2. Contains a good chapter. on the selection, use and care of 
a sewing machine for you. 
3. Contains a clear explanation of sewing processes general- 
izing whenever possible, and not creating a /ot of special 
cases. 
4. Contains a complete section on fabrics, fibers, and 
finishes including background, use, properties and 
home /aundering instructions. 
[Reviewed by Lois Brand] 
Successful Sewing: A Modern Guide 
Nesta Hollis 
1969; 206 pp. 
$8.75 postpaid 
from: 
Taplinger Publishing Co., Inc. 
29 East Tenth Street 
New York, N. ¥Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Practice sewing straight. 
\f you have never used a sewing machine 
before, it is a very good idea to start by sewing practice lines, angles 
and curves. One sewing machine manufacturer, Viking Husqvarna, 
produces practice sheets (domestic science teachers and college lec- 
turers can make block applications for classroom use) and they 
have given me their permission to reproduce two of them here. 
. 
.. Sew along the lines keeping as accurate as possible. 
Do not 
watch the needle but keep your eyes on the sewing line. 
If you 
wish you may sew without thread on these practice squares, though 
it is perhaps more encouraging if you do use thread. 
Practice patterns. 
There is more than one kind of smocking. What we give you here is 
English smocking, in which the fabric is first evenly gathered on the 
wrong side, and gathers (pleats) are held together by embroidery on 
the right side. Evenness in gathering is essential. Striped (1/8'’) or 
checked (1/8” or 1/4’) fabric provides a built-in guide, and is highly 
recommended, especially for beginners. With striped fabric, hori- 
zontal guidelines must be added on wrong side with pencil and yard- 
stick, placed to correspond more or less with the embroidery pattern. 
FOR MARKING 
*Dressmaker's Carbon Tracing Paper and Tracing Wheel (11)——For 
transferring pattern markings to fabric. Paper comes in several 
colors. Wheels come with or without teeth. See MARKING. 
*Tailor’s Chalk (12)——Also used for transferring pattern markings 
to fabric. Clay chalk comes in red, white, and blue, in squares or in 
pencil form. 
French seam. 
This is the traditional seam for fine, hand-sewn lingerie, 
but whether sewn by hand or by machine, a French seam can also be 
extremely useful for other garments, and especially for fine garments 
for babies and young children, where frequent washing might cause an 
unfinished seam to fray or unravel. 
Like the flat fell seam, the French seam is produced the “wrong way” 
——the wrong sides of the fabric are placed together for stitching, so 
that the raw edges appear on the right side of the article. 
Instead of stitching on the seam line, stitch nearer to the raw edges 
of the fabric——say about 3/8 in. from the edge of the fabric. Trim 
the seam allowance slightly; turn article to the wrong side. Fold 
along the stitched seam line so that the right sides of the fabric are 
touching. Press along the fold, and make a line of tacking stitches 
3/8 in. from the fold. Then stitch. No raw edges should be visible 
on the right side of the fabric; nothing looks worse than a French 
seam where strands are trapped in the seam, and there is almost no 
way of getting rid of these untidy ends once the seam has been 
stitched. 
Finally, open and press. 
