CHANGES 
Sali 
A) 
ie 
i 
Kt) 
ag 
SN 
NES 
yf 
4 
= 
pee a 
HN 
1. POPULATION 
THE CONDITION 
Position: Man is but a part of the fabric of life—-—dependent 
on the whole fabric for his very existence. As the most 
highly developed tool-using animal, he must recognize that 
the unknown evolutionary destinies of other life forms are 
to be respected, and act as gentle steward of the earth’s 
community of being. 
Situation: There are now too many human beings, and the 
problem is growing rapidly worse. 
It is potentially disas- 
trous not only for the human race but for most other life 
forms. 
Goal: The goal would be half of the present world popula- 
tion, or less. 
ACTION 
Social/political: 
First, a massive effort to convince the 
governments and leaders of the world that the problem is 
severe. And that all talk about raising food-production—— 
well intentioned as it is——simply puts off the only real 
solution: reduce population. Demand immediate partici- 
pation by all countries in programs to legalize abortion, 
encourage vasectomy and sterilization (provided by free 
clinics)——free insertion of intrauterine loops——try to 
correct traditional cultural attitudes that tend to force 
women into child-bearing——remove income tax deduc- 
tions for more than two children above a specified income 
level, and scale it so that lower income families are forced 
to be careful too——or pay families to limit their number. 
Take vigorous stand against the policy of the right-wing 
in the Catholic hierarchy and any other institutions that 
exercise an irresponsible social force in regard to this 
question; oppose and correct simple-minded boosterism 
that equates population growth with continuing pros- 
perity. Work ceaselessly to have all political questions 
be seen in the light of this prime problem. 
The community: Explore other social structures and 
marriage forms, such as group marriage and polyandrous 
marriage, which/provide family life but may produce less 
children. Share the pleasures Of raising children widely, 
so that all need not directly reproduce to enter into this 
basic human experience. We must hope that no woman 
would give birth to more than one child, during this 
period of crisis. Adopt children. Let reverence for life 
and reverence for the fémiinine mean also a reverence for 
other species, and future human lives, most of which are 
threatened. 
Our own heads: 
“| am a child of all life, and all living 
beings are my brothers and sisters, my children and grand- 
children. And there is a child within me waiting to be 
brought to birth, the baby of a new and wiser self.”’ 
Love, lovemaking, a man and woman together, seen as the 
vehicle of mutual realization, where the creation of new 
44 Four Changes 
Whole Systems 
CHOFU 
selves and a new world of being is as important as repro- 
ducing our kind. 
Il. POLLUTION 
THE CONDITION 
Position: Pollution is of two types. One sort results from 
an excess of some fairly ordinary substance——smoke, or 
solid waste——which cannot be absorbed or transmitted 
rapidly enough to offset its introduction into the environ- 
ment, thus causing changes the great cycle is not prepared 
for. (All organisms have wastes and by-products, and these 
are indeed part of the total biosphere: energy is passed along 
the line and refracted in various ways, “the rainbow body.” 
This is cycling, not pollution.) The other sort is powerful 
modern chemicals and poisons, products of recent tech- 
nology, which the biosphere is totally unprepared for. 
Such is DDT and similar chlorinated hydrocarbons—— 
nuclear testing fall out and nuclear waste——poison gas, 
germ and virus storage and leakage by the military; and 
chemicals which are put into food, whose long-range effects 
on human beings have not been properly tested. 
Situation: The human race in the last century has allowed 
its production and scattering of wastes, by-products, and 
various chemicals to become excessive. Pollution is 
directly harming life on the planet: which is to say, ruining 
the environment for humanity itself. We are fouling our 
air and water, and living in noise and filth that no “animal” 
would tolerate, while advertising and politicians try and 
tell us we’ve never had it so good. The dependence of the 
modern governments on this kind of untruth leads to shame- 
ful mind-pollution: mass media and most school education. 
Goal: Clean air, clean clear-running rivers, the presence of 
Pelican and Osprey and Gray Whale in our lives; salmon and 
trout in our streams; unmuddled language and good dreams. 
ACTION 
Social/political: 
Effective international legislation banning 
DDT and related poisons——with no fooling around. The 
collusion of certain scientists with the pesticide industry 
and agri-business in trying to block this legislation must be 
brought out in the open. Strong penalties for water and air 
pollution by industries——“’Pollution is somebody’s profit.” 
Phase out the internal combustion engine and fossil fuel 
use in general——more research into non-polluting energy 
sources; solar energy; the tides. No more kidding the 
public about atomic waste disposal: 
it’s impossible to do 
it safely, and nuclear-power generated electricity cannot 
be seriously planned for as it stands now. Stop all germ and 
chemical warfare research and experimentation; work toward 
a hopefully safe disposal of the present staggering and 
stupid stockpiles of H-Bombs, cobalt gunk, germ and 
poison tanks and cans. Laws and sanctions against waste- 
ful use of paper etc. which adds to the solid waste of 
cities-—develop methods of re-cycling solid urban wastes. 
CHANGES 
CHANGES 
LAW 
—— 
wih mer 
: 
x 
i 
‘é 
sil} 
ae 
Bg. 
“ae tt: ayy’ dae 
Ai 
tte om 
i 
ia 
ad 
IK 
a 
ie 
LAY ode 
= 
i 
wpe 
Drawing of Evolution Valley by Judy Daniel 
for ‘4 Changes’ poster by Noel Young. 
Re-cycling should be the basic principle behind all waste- 
disposal thinking. Thus, all bottles should be re-usable; 
old cans should make more cans; old newspapers back into 
newsprint again. Stronger controls and research on 
chemicals in foods. A shift toward a more varied and 
sensitive type of agriculture (more small-scale and sub- 
sistence farming) would eliminate much of the call for 
blanket use of pesticides. 
The community: DDT and such: don’t use them. Air 
pollution: 
use less cars. Cars pollute the air, and one or 
two people riding lonely in a huge car is an insult to 
intelligence and the Earth. Share rides, legalize hitch-hiking, 
and build hitch-hiker waiting stations along the highways. 
Also——a step toward the new world——walk more; look 
for the best routes through beautiful countryside for 
long-distance walking trips: San Francisco to Los Angeles 
down the Coast Range, for example. Learn how to use 
your own manure as fertilizer if you're in the country—— 
as the Far East has done for centuries. There's a way, and 
it’s safe. Solid waste: 
boycott bulky wasteful Sunday 
papers which use up trees. 
It’s all just advertising anyway, 
which is artificially inducing more industry consumption. 
Refuse paper bags at the store. Organize Park and Street 
clean-up festivals. Don’t work in any way for or with an 
industry which pollutes, and don’t be drafted into the 
military. Don’t waste. (A monk and an old master were 
once walking in the mountains. They noticed a little hut 
upstream. The monk said, ’’A wise hermit must live there’ —— 
the master said, ‘’That’s no wise hermit, you see that 
lettuce leat floating down the stream, he’s a Waster.”” 
Just tnen an old man came running down the hill with 
his beard flying and caught the floating lettuce leaf.) 
Carry your own jug to the winery and have it filled from 
the barrel. 
Our own heads: Part of the trouble with talking about DDT 
is that the use of it is not just a practical device, it’s almost 
an establishment religion. There is something in Western 
culture that wants to totally wipe out creepy-crawlies, and 
feels repugnance for toadstools and snakes. This is fear of 
one’s own deepest natural inner-self wilderness areas, and 
the answer is, relax. Relax around bugs, snakes, and your 
own hairy dreams. Again, farmers can and should share 
their crops with a certain percentage of buglife as ‘paying 
their dues.’’ Thoreau says: ‘How then can the harvest 
fail? Shall | not rejoice also at the abundance of the weeds 
whose seeds are the granary of the birds? It matters little 
comparatively whether the fields fill the farmer’s barns. 
The true husbandman will cease from anxiety, as the 
squirrels manifest no concern whether the woods will bear 
chestnuts this year or not, and finish his labor with every 
day, relinquish all claim to the produce of his fields, and 
sacrificing in his mind not only his first but his last fruit 
also.” In the realm of thought, inner experience, conscious- 
ness, as in the outward realm of interconnection, there is 
a difference between balanced cycle, and the excess which 
cannot be handled. When the balance is right, the mind 
