CATALOG 
Procedure 
Index on p. 442 
Ordering 
from the CATALOG 
+ 
Address orders to the supplier given with the 
item. (Or shop locally.) 
+ 
1/f the price listed is not postpaid consult post office 
or express agency for cost of shipping from sup- 
plier’s location to yours. Or have the item sent 
postage C.O.D. 
+» Add state sales tax if transaction is within your state. 
(California sales tax is 5%.) You don’t have to do this 
for periodicals. 
+ Send check or money order. 
If the item says or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG, you can get 
it by mail from us: 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
558 Santa Cruz Ave. 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
There is usually no price difference; the CATALOG gets 
the markup (10-40%) instead of the other guy, is all. Our 
service is fairly fast, especially for west coast. Generally, 
the closer a supplier is to you, the quicker and cheaper the 
shipping will be. If you’re ordering from overseas, surface 
mail takes about two months, airmail just a.couple days. 
Sense and Patience 
Be gentle. Sometimes we carry very small companies. 
They often have a hard time coping with the volume of 
inquiries they receive as a result of their unrequested listing 
in the CATALOG. Especially when most of the requests 
for literature seem to be just curiosity. 
That kind of thing 
can break a small company. So don’t write just to keep 
your mail box full. 
—Fred Richardson 
Current Information 
Bear in mind there’s an inflation on. Prices are subject to 
rise without notice. Prices, addresses, suppliers —— what 
we call access information —— are-as current as the most 
recent printing date (see battom ofthis page). 
2 
The evaluations in this 
CATALOG were made in April-May 
1971, after three years of sifting. They are not updated 
with subsequent printings. 
Also, where there are excerpted items from catalogs we‘re 
reviewing, those items and prices are not updated from the 
1971 originals. 
Note. This really is the LAST CATALOG. Please don’t 
send us your suggestions for new items and comments on 
old ones (except for revisions of access information). 
Let us R.1.P. 
Write to one of our kindred publications 
(see pp. 239 -244). Or start your own catalog. 
Format 
We.used to be two publications, the CATALOG, and the 
Supplement. The CATALOG was formal and responsible; 
the Supplement wasn’t. /n this LAST CATALOG they are 
mixed. Usually material from the Supplements has a 
Light heading, whereas formal CATALOG items have a. 
Bold heading. 
Both are indexed in the back. About 1/3 
of the material in this LAST CATALOG is new. 
Each page number has a heading indicating the section it’s 
in, such as Whole Systems, and a heading indicating the 
general contents of that page, such as Funky Future. 
Blackwell's Books 
Many 
books carried in the 
CATALOG are substantially 
cheaper in the British edition. 
You can order them from 
Blackwell’s. 
- 
Blackwell’s Bookstore in Oxford, England, is a service which 
the Catalog should list. Their collection is probably the 
world’s most comprehensive and they run a global service, 
providing lengthy, free, separate catalogs on about 25 subject 
areas, including children’s books, books in other 
languages, science, literature, philosophy, religion, math- 
ematics, etc. Their prices are significantly lower and they 
will not send a book which can be obtained more cheaply 
in'America unless you so request. They will open an 
account for you, accept your personal check, and bill you 
semi-annually. They also buy up old libraries (occasionally 
famous ones, recently John Masefield’s) and issue catalogs 
on second-hand books and first editions. They have a 
cable code BOOKS OXFORD and a code system for some 
catalogs which-enables you to place an order with a minimum 
of cost in a hurry. The books arrive slowly but the catalogs 
keep coming in all year long and are a great delight 
themselves. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Larry Schwartz] 
Catalog 
free — from: 
BLACKWELL’S 
Broad Street, Oxford, England 
METHODS OF PAYMENT 
Orders and correspondence should, in every case, be sent 
direct to Oxford. The following addresses are for remittances 
only. 
U.S.A. and American Account Area: by personal check in 
dollars (£1=$2.40) sent to Blackwell’s in Oxford; or to B.H. 
Blackwell, Ltd., P.O. Box 1452, Church Street Station, 
New York, New York 10008 (for their account with the 
Bankers Trust Co.). 
Canada: by personal cheque in Canadian dollars (£=$2.61) 
sent to Blackwell's, or to The Canadian Imperial Bank of 
Commerce, P.O. Box 6003, Montreal 3, P.Q., or by Bank 
Draft in sterling, or by Canadian Postal Money Order. 
Prices given for Blackwell’s in the Whole Earth Catalog do 
not include shipping. 
The review is a bit out of date. Blackwell’s now bills monthly, 
and they get upset if you don’t pay them reasonably promptly; 
gone are the days where you could have their books for six months 
or so before even thinking about paying for them. One of the most 
useful Blackwell's catalogues isn’t mentioned. 
This is New and 
Forthcoming Books in all subjects, and it comes twice a year. It’s 
a good way to keep up with what’s happening. 
Another central point about Blackwell’s is that they will order for 
you books published anywhere in the world. 
This includes printed 
music, and a substantial savings can be the result, since most of the 
European music dealers (as well, for that matter, as a good many 
book publishers) have sole American distributors; the European 
houses will not accept direct orders from Americans —— but they 
will accept orders from Blackwell’s. Recorder music which would 
cost $10 at any music store in New York City costs about $3 when 
ordered from England, if the stuff ts foreign-published. 
T B Belanger 
New York 
Divine Right’s Trip 
Our Story thus far 
by Gurney Norman 
This original folk-tale will be found proceeding episodically along 
the right-hand pages (lower-right corner) in this type face, making 
the CATALOG what it has longed to be, a work of drama. The 
Perils of D.R. Tune in next page. 
Starts on p. 9. 
Sug gesting 
and Reviewing 
We are a bunch of amateurs. 
Our reviewers —— seldom 
experts, never critics -— got $10 and credit for their re- 
view. Suggestors got only credit until Fall 1970, then $10. 
Our policy with suppliers has been: 
Suppliers (manufacturers, creators, etc.) may not buy their 
way into the CATALOG. 
Free samples, etc., are cheerfully 
accepted by CATALOG researchers; response not predict- 
able. No payment for listing is asked or accepted. We owe 
accurate information exchange to suppliers, but not favors. 
Our obligation is to CATALOG users and to ourselves to be 
good tools for one another. 
The judgments in the reviews are wholly sincere. 
They are 
also only partially informed, often biased, very often wish- 
ful, occasionally a temporary enthusiasm. 
Many 
are simply 
hasty. | wouldn’t rely on them too far. Try to see through 
them. 
On Getting Stuff 
As Dan Schiller suggested in Popular Photography, the 
CATALOG will bankrupt you if you can’t distinguish be- 
tween what you need and what you wish you needed. 
Start extravagant, and you'll never finish. Get the cheap 
tool first, see if it feeds your life. If it does, then get a 
better one. Once you use it all the time, get the best. 
You 
can only grow into quality. 
You can’t buy it. 
Most of the stuff in the CATALOG can be borrowed free 
from a library. 
This issue 
of the CATALOG is the last. We encourage 
others to initiate similar services to fill the vacuum in the 
economy we stumbled into and are stepping out of. We 
don’t see how using our name or copy 
can aid originality, 
so they’re not available, for love or money. Ideas we’ve had 
and evaluations we've made are free for recycling. 
Preparation of the CATALOG was done on an IBM Selectric 
Composer and Polaroid MP-3 Camera. 
Printing and binding by: 
Nowels Publications, Menlo Park, California 
Deven Lithographers, Inc., Long Island City, New York 
Craftsmen Press, Inc., Bladensburg, Maryland 
For credits, and How to Make 
a WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
AND TRUCK STORE, see p. 434. 
1st Printing June 1971—200,000—Nowels 
2nd Printing July 1971—100,000—Deven 
3rd Printing August 1971—100,000—Deven 
4th Printing September 1971—100,000—Craftsmen 
Sth Printing October 1971—120,000—Craftsmen 
6th Printing October 1971—160,000—Deven 
