lock will prove invaluable. fei 
P equiv. to the editor's blue paral Prior to the synthesizer every 
note (yes, Virginia, even the 16th & 32nd kind) were assembled 
by the edit block & by a musician/composer who either didn’t 
own a watch or had absolutely no regard for the units it indicated. 
And, oh yes, it helps to be a bit crazy. No, let's say a lot crazy. 
To be sitting here in my west side brownstone in upper 80's 
Manhattan contemplating the multi-thousand dollars of equipment 
Rae Elkind & | have been organizing into our new tempi studio 
_ 
& then writing all these put-downs to you, in her home town, makes 
me feel kinda strange (and being very broke helps). Perhaps that 
will help the new album. | wish you were closer-by so that you could 
see just how involved two “art with a capital (fingers crossed) A- 
artists’’ can become in this medium. And our only hope right now? 
Pay the bills & get ourselves a nice quiet geodesic dome (again, 
thanks to you & Domebook !) down on St. Thomas & get out of 
N.Y.C. except now and again when that urge/appetite for noise/ 
dirt/culture/thinking/books/concerts/activity calls. 
'- 
Frankly, you all sound like our kind of people, or vice-versa if 
thats more right-onish, we'll miss you. Many will. 
| hope determi- 
nation, sweat, brains, adrenalin-push, etc. get that last one out. And, 
if it's not too late, please help get the confusion out of the E.M. 
scene. Objectivity here is mostly cop-out, but lack of time & help, 
a 
that | understand. 
If anything in this garbled mess of a rap is useful, 
it’s yours, no strings— first time I’ve ever left my hermiting to do it— 
so; but do credit it with a simple: W. Carlos. Otherwise, all warmest 
regards from but two more of your fans! 
W. Carlos 
Pe 
eae 
A P.S. page of specifics 
THE MOOG— | know this unit the best— first met Bob (R.A. 
Moog's ““R"’) at 1963 AES show. Purchased a small collection of 
his first 900 series modules & combined into my 1st prototype 
synthesizer. Paid most of the bill by doing a demo record for Bob 
& doing music & efx for T.V. commercials. Developed several ideas 
many now part of standard Moog units which are packaged with 
(sadly) no choice of compoents except on special order. The pix 
of the Moog III you show is 3-4 yrs old. Newer IV is more compact 
& less blank panels. Portamento & hold circuit originally my 
concept, but Bob improved it greatly. He built my two touch-sensi- 
tive keyboards to spec. and together we got them to work. They’‘re 
far from good, but do allow the pressure (depth) and momentum 
(speed) touch of the performer to be used to give feelings of ex- 
pressive & phrasing, either of the traditional kind or other kind 
(timbral-vibroto expressivity, for ex.) unfortunately, his keyboard 
supplier changed and the new kinds don’t lend themselves to 
token sensitivity except in the horrid way the Putney does it 
(more on that later). He uses good controls (ohmite or AB ‘‘pots’’) 
and sturdy construction, but relies on patch cords except for a few 
a ecemaine 
« 
a] 
Music Synthesizers 
coming into california out of montana snow a couple of 
years ago the truck radio started picking up a strange, 
synchopated, alien, version of “cripple creek.’ sounded 
like some human metronome playing a banjo with a 
waawaa petal inside a boxcar. turned out to be a moog. 
, seems like the synthesizer people should stay away from 
_ 
old standards like “don’t step on mama’‘s roses” and 
develop some sound that fits the tool. 
—jd 
The Putney looks to be a more modest, self-contained 
unit, with a lower price range (around $1000). 
Write to: 
ol 
pollute 
than aidiches, ehh a 
ears 
for city use a better choice than the 
Tonus which is nearly all crossbar/matrix switch—interconnected- 
neater but fail unsafe. Moog’s 904 filter best voltage controlled 
version around, 
| have 3. Also his envelope generators are great, 
but he underestimates their need. His largest Mark II| has but 3 
envelope generators on it. | use 8 & still run short. Also, he’s 
great even if slow on custom gadgets; I’ve got several foot buttons 
and toe pistons/expression pedals that he built— all good stuff. 
Logical layouts, too. | also am a nut about all that pretty real 
walnut for everything, even the custom gadgets. We also concocted 
a “polyphonic” generator bank, an outgrowth of one of his earlier 
educational contracts. 
It’s got 49 separate little oscilators—filters— 
envelopers & permits chords, arpeggios, and the like. 
It’s another 
one-of-a-kind thing, although he now also supplies a bank of fixed 
oscillators with no voltage control or enveloping or the like, but 
it’s good for pop-style ‘‘vamping’’ of chords, and at least he has it 
up for sale. | have two keyboards but despite the 6’ x 6’ mass of 
my machine | usually use up nearly all the components on one 
sound leaving the 2nd keyboard without any resources, so | almost 
always work one-note at a time. 
It does give the best control— you 
can concentrate on one part, like-a soloist, and let multi-tracking 
provide the chords, the density, the orchestration, etc. 
so far, 
with only an 8-track I’ve gotten to 32 parts, with but a few “‘pre- 
mixes”. That should be enough for anyone, but |’m still eager 
to work on 16 tracks, more for convenience than thickness. 
THE TONUS has much better oscillators than the Moog & gives 
you 2 notes at a time, with reservations. Otherwise it isn’t too 
different from the Moog. Al Perlemon admits being influenced by 
Bob Moog. | already mentioned the hazzards of Tonus’ switching— 
“caveat emptor’. Also, his walnut formica is a bit less ‘‘classy”’ 
than Bob’s walnut wood veneers. He has a few new ideas— some- 
what better wave shape variety, but his filters are not so great, and 
his envelopers have a more limited range than | could work with, 
although throughout that range they are good. The Arp, then, 
could be better than Moog but is not yet, and is about the same 
price. But again, the biggest is about seven grand and by now my 
unit is worth over double that, and Tonus doesn’t grow larger as 
conveniently as Moog, so again compromises. 
But, for concert use, 
it’s probably the best choice & operates about as easily as a Moog, 
and is quickly learnable (basic techniques, not philos., natch). 
The “BUCHLA Box’’ was built mainly to Morton Subotnick’s specs 
& his group originally at San Francisco. 
It's better suited to that 
type of partially aleatoric/partially contrived—planned music that 
Mort writes. The Electric Circus in town here uses one for ambience, 
and, with all its automated sequencers it’s good for that. The 
construction and looks are good, but his patching is flimsy and 
breaks under less-than-cautious handling. Prices are reasonable. 
However, there isno playing-keyboard of the more or less tra- 
ditional type, and along with oscillators less stable & less easy-to- 
tune than Moogs, is not a good device for traditionally oriented 
melody/harmony/rhythm. Also, unlike Moog’s and Arp’s 
sequencers, his are usually evenly spaced leading to, for my ears, 
a rigid, mechanical rhythmic quality which some people seem to dig. 
Electronic Musical Instruments 
A not-too-bad introduction to the rudiments of the 
hardware. 
—SB 
Electronic Musical Instruments 
Norman Crowhurst 
1971; 191 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
from: 
TAB books 
Monterey & Pinola Aves. 
Blue Ridge Summit, Pa. 17214 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
LECTRONIC 
MUSICAL 
INSTRUMENTS 
Fig. 
6-25. Chart 
showing 
the 
possible 
direct trans- 
formations of the four basic waveforms. 
a 
t's 
col 
the 
selection 
stretch of feta permit ai 
exp. to be constructed. 
It also has a so-called touch 
sitive 
board, which has to be tried to be believed, it’s that awful! No 
feel or physical feedback at all (as there is on a piano, for ex 
again, another great concept worked out in ignorance (and the 
] 
| tried worked backwards: 
softer touch=louder sounds!) But 
it 
is’ 
small & portable & groups might like it for special effects. 
The same for several other mini-synthesizers. 
| won't go into detai 
but it is sufficient to say that they are not aiming at any degree o 
sophistication or control. 
| find the lot of them dull & not worth 
even their modest costs. Better to save up for a Moog or Arpof — 
moderate size & build it up with time to as large a complexity (or 
compoundity) as you desire. 
4 
Most of these units are not easily compatible with one another, 
; 
although the hybrid idea can be made to work if one has the 
wer 
necessary knowledge. 
I'm still waiting for a better state-of-the-art” 
before | part with any more of my bread, however. 
ite'all 
On top of this, one must realize that the money trip has just begun, — 
even a used Ampex 4 track costs nearly 3 grand, and another 2 
track (preferably) is usually necessary, for at least half that. Most 
" 
home machines fall flat on their capstans in this kind of work. 
: 
5. 
Perhaps the small Dolby-B could help out the limited budget. 
= 
There is still a lot of garbage-talk out. The ‘‘technical—snow- 
session” is sadly typical. But who am | to put down folks who dig 
the magic/mysticism of what | feel is downright quackery? | was 
sorry to see that new publication jump into that fire. It’s like 
everyone wants to join this or that “avant garde” movement, 
complete with secret-code type jargon & mathematics of the most 
pitiful sort (my B.A. in physics-math-music is showing) to ‘“prove” 
that such and such a dull work is “really interesting”. 
I'd like to 
.- 
see more pioneers of the independent sort, striking out with even 
by 
makeshift gear to find some personal statement of truth, be it 
" 
fashionable stylistically or not, but thea this seems to be the 
problem of all music & all the arts in general; electronic music has 
no monopoly here. 
= 
| wish the name “‘synthesizer” could vanish. Who wants synthetic 
anything, especially music? The path we are on is (1 hope) towards 
a. 
a useful, convenient new musical instrument which employs electronic 
; 
components to do what physical.components have done for years. It 
ought to be an outgrowth of the past; | see no skyhook to a totally 
new music, and the attempts I’ve heard seem to prove this rigorously. 
In the meantime | can only hope not too much damage to the 
image & progress of E.M. will be brought about by the “‘nonsense- 
boys’’, and that some talented “saviors” will find the means & bread 
to show .the way & expose the bull-shit artists for what they are, 
even to the uninitiated. So, there, my sermon is done. Sorry about 
that. 
It’s just so damned hard to be objective anymore. 
W. Carlos 
¥ 
e
ee
eee
oe 
| 
e 
‘ 
Breathe, Emmit. Suck you in a big lungfull. 
i
e 
cs 
Emmit heaved, he bit 
9 
° 
k
» 
Emmit heaved and bit and suddenly ‘raised his head and sniffed 
™ 
and got some air. In, out, he breathed and breathed, and by the 
Z
time they got him on the sled he had voice enough to argue. 
" 
e 
s 
| don’t want to go to no hospital. 
*
e 
‘ 
Well you're going to one whether you like it or not. | should 
i
have taken you in a month ago. 
J 
e 
sf 
Who was that? 
;
e 
& 
It was Leonard. 
e 
It’s me, said Leonard. 
e 
Goddamn you for taking me, said Emmit. And he looked at 
> 
D.R. and said goddamn you too. 
e 
Oh it was moving swiftly now. Oh it was happening fast. Is this 
how fast it goes? It’s so clear, so vivid, is this how fast it happens? 
Emmit's final hours on earth were sweeping through D.R. like some 
fire, consuming him, filling all his cracks and empty spaces with its 
4
rush and flow and go. 
e 
There’s so much work, so much to suddenly do. It’snot about 
doing. It’s not fretting do 
doing. Not talking, nor remembering nor _ 
nor 
looking forward but DOING. Get him to the hospital, quick 
quick, 
off this mountain, into Urge. 
Electronic Synthesizers 
Communications 
