; 
fine tonal quality, and an instruction manual. 
- 
/t is easy to learn and a lot of fun to play. 
The Melody Flute Company also sells a complete line of 
_ recorders at very reasonable prices. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Winston Fowlkes] 
Melody Flute 
$.75 to $1.75 
(information free) 
from: 
Melody Flute Company 
126 Lafayette Avenue 
Laurel, Maryland 20810 
No. 0—Plastic Flute C with mouthpiece 50 cents—Book.$.25 total $.75 
No. 1—*Metal Flute C with mouthpiece $.75—Book $:25 total $1.00 
No, 1—*Metal Flute B flat with mouthpiece $1.25—Book $.25 total $1.50 
Total $1.50 
No. 2—*Metal Flute B flat Professional Type $1.50+Book $.25 
Total$1.75 
 - 
*Nickel Plated 
One price—any quantity. 
POSTAGE—Above 
prices include postage on orders amounting to 
$5.00 or more. On smaller orders add $.25 per order for mailing 
costs. 
BOOK PRICES—Books alone—$.25 each—Any quantity—Postage 
prepaid on orders amounting to $1.00 or more. On smaller orders 
add 10 cents for mailing costs. 
Ta 
Bagpipes 
For those who may be interested in bagpipes— 
acquiring 
them or playing them, there is an excellent company in 
Scotland: 
Hugh MacPherson Ltd. 
17 West Maitland Street 
Edinburgh 12, Scotland 
Importing them yourself is about 4 times cheaper than 
buying one over here. 
Furthermore, the quality is better 
and the service is extremely courteous (although slow. 
It 
takes’3 months.to get your bagpipe after ordering it) It 
is worth it however. A full sized bagpipe— 
full mounted 
in imitation ivory costs about $84.52 in American money 
(at the current rate of exchange) (That's another ‘thing 
they'll do for you. 
They’ll translate their prices into recog- 
nizable money symbols for Americans) 
In California, a 
cheap Pakistani imitation Scottish bagpipe costs $150.00!!! 
Since MacPhersons’s things are made of selected African 
blackwood and constructed with an old fashioned pride-of- 
craftsmanship, there can be no comparison. 
Their fanciest, 
a full mounted model in H.M. silver either chased or engraved 
costs 170 pounds. 
(let someone else translate that into 
dollars. 
| asked them for price translation of the low priced 
models.) 
Furthermore, they even offer a miniature bagpipe 
suited for indoor playing for about $50 (£22 10 0). They 
sell also practice chanters, instruction books, collections of 
the Ceol Mor, maintenance accessories and even superfluous 
goodies like highland costumes for performers. 
They will 
send. you a catalogue (of sorts) if you write them. 
| highly 
recommend the practice chanter for starting. 
It costs about 
$8 for the simplest and will teach you the notes and let you 
play tunes. 
An excellent beginners instruction book is the 
College of Piping Tutor Book |, by Seumas Masneill and 
Thomas Pearston. 
Also order extra reeds with your chanter, 
The plastic types last a long time. 
—Tiny Alice 
Los Angeles, California 
Mittenwald 
I suggest the Mittenwald Co. of Chicago, importers of fine recorders 
and other instruments. 
The recorder, as most everyone knows, is 
one of the easiest instruments to learn to play while still remaining 
a challenge to the virtuoso. They are great fun to play in groups 
(in “consort”). There is a vast repertoire of music for them. They 
take up little room and aside from an occasional swabbing and 
oiling of the bore are practically maintainance free. While cheap 
soprano recorders are available for two or three dollars, for the 
person serious in getting going with them, I recommend the Adler 
or Moeck'line of recorders. For really ambitious people there are 
reproductions of baroque and renaissance oboes, bassoons, shawms, 
rackets, cornetts, serpents etc:available on special order. 
William M. Fetcher 
CINC PAC flt Band 
Shakuhachi 
I make shakuhachi flutes. The shakuhachi ts Japanese in origin, an 
end-blown flute tuned toa pentatonic scale. Its music— one of the 
major genres of traditional Japanese music— flourished during the 
Edo Period (1603-1867) and lasted well into the Meiji Era. It 
faded, finally, into relative obscurity when challenged by the per- 
vasive absorption of Western classical forms. Only recently, in 
Japan, has there been a revival of traditional shakuhachi music. 
The effect of Western imperialist penetration on indigenous Third 
World cultures is especially apparent in the case of Japanese music. 
By the ‘Twenties and ‘Thirties the majority of contemporary 
musicians were firm in their preoccupation with Bach and Beethoven. 
Attempts to integrate classical Japanese forms into this scheme 
resulted in such perversions as grandiose emulations of Western 
symphonic music. Perhaps less pretentious, but just as perverse, 
was the incorporation.(or exploitation) of traditional music into 
Pop Culture in Japan. Just. the other day I came across a recording 
entitled something like The Shakuhachi Goes Latin. 
Well, perhaps 
Xavier Cugart does play an occasional gig at a zen monastery. 
Historically, the shakuhachi went. through a number of heavy trips. 
During different periods it was favored-by men of diverse tempera- 
ments and ways of life: from mendicant Buddhist monks to. lower 
class Samurai (who, disarmed.of their swords by the Emperor, 
carried the Shakuhachivas a weapon, a club). to merchants. . 
The 
appeal of its subtle qualities is near universal 
Before I tell you of my experiences with this flute, I'll quote a very 
concise description of it by Kishibe Shigeo in The Traditional 
Music of Japan: “The instrument is made from the lowest section 
of the bamboo. 
The. average diametre of the pipe is +5 cm, and 
the inside of the pipe is almost cylindrical... 
. The standard length 
of 1.8 (Japanese feet) or 54.5 cm is used for solo pieces (when 
played in ensemble with Koto and Shamisen its léngth is varied 
according to the pitch of the other instruments) and the pitch of 
the open pipe, d, is regarded as the standard pitch. Five fingerholes, 
four in front and one in the ‘back, give the following six tones in the 
standard pipe, d (closed), f, g, a, c, d’. By various fingerings, half- 
holing, and controlling the angle of the mouthpiece against the lip, 
all of the twelve tones.can be produced. .The mouthpiece at the 
top of the pipe is made by cutting the edge diagonally toward the 
outside. 
This type of mouthpiece makes it possible for the player 
to control the pitch by changing the angle, which in turn produces 
a delicate change intonation not possible on a Western recorder 
(blockflote) having a whistle type of mouthpiece. As well as the 
delicate changing of intonation and various kinds of portamento, 
the noise of blowing on the edge of the mouthpiece creates an 
artistic effect. Of course the mellow timbre of the rather thick 
bamboo pipe is the basic characteristic of the instrument.”’ The 
inherent dispassion of any attempt to discribe the sound of the 
shakuhachi is brought home forcefully only by the sound itself. 
In short, one must expeience it and then create it himself. My 
own experience of seven or eight months has been a love affair 
with this sound. At times, still, it eludes me and laughs at me; at 
other times it caressess me. Always, however, it reflects some 
fundamental aspect of my being. The shakuhachi is a barometer 
fo the soul; it cannot be cheated. It never lies. That is, unless I do. 
To get down to business: I was turned on to the shakuhachi by 
some friends in Berkeley. It was magnetic: a whirlwind romance. 
This éxperience, I later discovered when selling shakuhachis, was 
typical. Before it was introduced to me, I had never heard of it 
nor read of it in books. Soon after purchasing my first flute, I 
tried my hand at making one. Other people who came around 
saw my flutes and went through the same trip I did. The idea of 
selling them, however, seemed absurd. Most people find it difficult 
to play at first, usually have never heard of it before, and are 
otherwise skeptical about this thing which is so simple yet so 
mysterious. 
For most people, purchasing one is more often 
than not an act of 
faith. (Out on the street selling them I can see 
that faith in the eyes of those few who fall in love with the sound. 
The look is one of assurance and certainty. About what I cannot 
put into words. I have no idea.) In any event, my skepticism 
proved mistaken. In the months that I have attempted to sell 
shakuhachis several people have expressed a desire to own one. 
There seems to be a sizeable demand for good but inexpensive 
flutes of this kind. But not much of an outlet. I myself know of 
only one or two such outlets, and they deal with a small clientele 
on a selective basis.. The waiting lists are long; the prices are 
expensive. 
What I am proposing to do is provide good inexpensive 
shakuhachis to those who desire them. It’s as simple as that. 
One final thing which I would like to emphasize. 
The flutes I am 
presently making are not authentic shakuhachis. Avoiding semantic 
hassles this merely means that they are not made of the root end 
of the bamboo. Such root pieces already aged (the optimum 
length of aging is three years for a piece of bamboo that is to be 
fashioned into a shakuhachi) are very difficult to come by. As 
such I have been using pieces close to the root. As farasIam 
concerned the basic difference between such flutes and root-end 
flutes is largely aesthetic. Of course, the tonal quality of a shaku- 
hachi varies with a number of 
factors: the size of the bore, the 
length of the flute, the'texture. 
and density of the bamboo, etc. 
The flutes I have made resemble, in their tonal quality, the 
mellowness of the root-end shakuhachi. They are fashioned and 
tuned like authentic instruments..I am presently in the process 
of trying to score better quality bamboo: root pieces which I can 
age properly, then fashion into shakuhachis. 
(Perhaps I can run 
a request in the Catalogue.) 
are kind of obscure 
nd dif, 
i 
nnels. I can provide a list of them. 
Monty Levenson 
eo 
Rt. 1 Hilltop Dr. 
Willits, California 95490 
— 
Violin Repair 
I learned violin repairing from a guy right out of a 
Breugelh 
= 
painting in Boston. 
Information which he passed along alsois 
useful if-you desire to repair a guitar. So— some how to and” 
as 
some where to. 
ly 
De 
Cracks in top or back. 
on a violin you can take the top off and pull the split 
together— 
I would not suggest trying this on a guttar 
because 
of various construction differences. 
Best thing 
to do ‘is 
fill crack with shaped splinters of wood (shaped 
to crack), spruce, or whatever the top is made of. These 
should be stuck in with a white glue Elmers is O.K. but 
“Tirebond,”’ (which is slightly yellow (otherwise like elmers) 
is Best. 
Can be gotten at some hardware store— 
look 
aa 
around for it. More expensive but waterproof and strong. 
If can’t find it is made by: 
ae 
The Franklin Glue Company 
. 
Columbus Ohio U.S.A. 
eight fluid ounce container (like elmers) @ $1.40 
2. 
Tiny cracks can be fillered with “Tirebond.” 
KE 
Broken neck. (guitar) where neck joins body. 
glue on with epoxy— 
drill hole and insert 1/2 inch wood 
(birch usually) dowel. 
coat the dowel with “tirebond” 
before you:stick in. DO NOT fill hole with glue and 
drive in peg (dowel) this will give neat demonstration of 
— 
how hydraulic pressure can split wood. 
If tremendous 
strength is necessary use a thick metal screw. 
(drill out 
© 
first) 
Broken neck other places. 
Never have done it but some kind of pin, peg or dowel 
between the two pieces ts highly recommended. 
for finishing materials and glue of other types for use in guitars 
~ 
or furniture (either main business) 
H. Behlen Bros. Inc. 
10 Christopher St. 
New York, N.Y. 10014 
ask for catalogue and 
price list (they are separate) 
They are 
prompt. 
1-2 weeks. 
(on east coast anyhow) they make a 
really beautiful white shellac. 
Home recipe No. 1 for a good violin/guitar varnish 
F 
combine their “sandarac”’ resin in a jar with alcohol 
(rubbing type) enough alcohol to cover the sandarac and 
1/3 more. 
leave it to dissolve for a week (until it all dissolves) 
drain through cheesecloth 
combine with equal part of good quality white shellac 
Powdered colour can be used with it. 
(get this at some 
art stores) 
Thin with alcohol 
P MAK 
‘wa?
a 
Ric
wrun
Tea 
Stephen Till 
Concord, Mass. 01742 
e 
Then it was water-time again and Leonard went outside while 
D.R. helped his uncle up and held the jar. 
@ 
Leonard wanted to know if there was anything he could do. 
I'll 
stay with him tonight if you want me to. 
e 
D.R. shook his head. I’m okay. | sleep a little, off and on. 
If 
you feed his animals | can take care of this end here just fine. 
e 
e
aS
aeS
ae
Leonard handed D.R. a ten dollar bill. You'll need to eat, he 
said. D.R. took it and thanked him and started down the hall. 
Hey Leonard! 
— i
oa
e 
Hey Leonard, | wonder if you'd mind calling Marcella. 
a 
e 
Momma already has, said Leonard. She called her this morning. 
e 
‘
I'll see you later, D.R. said. 
<i 
e 
And then it was time to shave him. 
) 
Two orderlies came in to shave Emmit, young fellows, not par- 
ticularly eager for the job. The doctor wanted it done, they said. 
And D.R. didn’t argue. 
I'll do it. 
mee
——
“ 
I'll do it, D.R. said, and he took the tools from the orderlies and - 
they went away. 
Scissors. 
Comb... 
e 
Razor, shaving cream. 
shave, Emmit. 
I'm going to give you a haircut and a 
e 
re
ee
a
e 
Hunh? 
Wind Instruments 
Communications 
