Nasco Farm and Ranch Catalog 
part of the trouble with going back to the farm, just like 
going into a new job or hobby, is that the technology of 
gadgets must be looked into, so the new farmer will be 
able-to tell whether he really needs a master artificial 
vagina, liquid semen refrigerator, and trans-jector electronic 
ejaculator, or whether he is going to believe in a little 
more organic process. 
the nasco catalog sits smack in the middle of farmy equip- 
ment consciousness, and carries all of the above mentioned 
goodies. but, nasco also carries the more staple farm tools, 
like crank forges, seed sowers, cant hooks, load binders, 
pulaskis, lopping shears, and post hole diggers. 
if you are a windowshopping farmer, or farmy window- 
shopper, write for the catalog. prices look reasonable. 
~jd 
from: 
Nasco, 
Fort Atkinson, Wisconsin 53538 
or 
Nasco-West 
Box 3837 
Modesto, California 95352 
FARM 20d RANCH tutalng 111 
ASOD PORT ATHON: 
Agricultural Extension Services 
Each of the 50 states provides agricultural advice and 
services through county or area offices of their Agricultural 
Extension Service. These services are twofold: 
1. Farm Advisors, extension agents, or county agents— 
depending on which state you live in, staff personnel under 
one of the above names are available for consultation or 
house calls in any area or agriculture or related fields such 
as turf care, home gardening, livestock, pest or rodent 
control and soil & water conservation to name a few. Most 
staffs usually also have a home economist. 
2. Publications—a wide range of publications are also 
available through the AES or the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture. 
Some are for sale, but most are free. They are non-scientific 
& are written for the lay person. These publications cover 
a wide range of subjects of interest in commercial agriculture. 
home gardening or homemaking. Most states will have a 
catalog of their publications, such as the two 
from the University of California. You may either order 
publications by mail or pick them up directly at the county 
office. If you have specific questions, it is often best to 
pick up brochures at the county office so that you may 
consult the farm adviser at the same time. Agricultural 
Extension Offices are normally listed in the phone book 
under the county 
listings. 
[Reviewed by Ed Johnson] 
Agricultural Publications 
free 
from: 
local county office 
Soil Conservation Service—USDA 
Most rural areas of the US are incorporated into Agricul- 
tural Conservation Districts. 
This situation offers two 
services you should be aware of. 
1. Soil conservationist & engineers— 
The services of these people are available to you through 
your local district office. 
If you need a livestock pond or 
watering sites for wildsgame, they'll do the engineering 
for you. 
They can also help out if your basement floods, 
your soil is blowing away or the creek is eating away the 
bank under your pad. 
2 Agricultural Credit & Production— 
ACP, as this program is referred to, is a cost sharing program 
for land owners or users sponsored by the US Dept. of 
Agriculture. 
If you are located within a conservation district, 
you may be-eligible for government money to help you 
develop springs;seed pasture, build fences or stabilize 
stream banks. 
é 6 
Farm Stuff 
ry 
Land Use 
[Reviewed by Ed Johnson] 
CALIFORNIA 
9 GOLDIE HALTER 
. A most beautiful halter 
. 
. 
. one that really sets the pace and 
rightfully belongs on the Champion. 
Brilliant white polypropylene with gold threads woven 
into it 
and all gold hardware. Wool nose band. Nothing else like it on the 
market, and you'll want to be the first to have it. 
Like all other Johnson halters, top quality and design have gone 
into this outstanding and unusual horse halter. Sh. wt. 1% Ibs. 
C2443N-21-12 For 1100 Ib. to 1500 Ib. horse 
C2444N-22-12 For 800 Ib. to 1100 Ib. horse................-. 
5.95 
FARM POND HARVEST 
This. unique publication is exactly what pond owners and farm- 
ers 
interested 
in a pond have been looking for...a magazine dedi- 
cated 
to farm pond planning and construction 
— pond management 
— 
fishing and harvesting. Here are some typical articles from past is- 
sues: Build-a Better Fish Pond; Stocking Private Ponds; Is Your Pond 
Clear or Muddy?; Trout in Farm and Ranch Ponds; How to Control 
Weeds in Your Fish Pond; The Mute Swan and Your Pond; The Raising 
of Channel! Catfish in Cages. 
Each and every pond requires management, and to be managed 
properly, the owner must be aware of the principles involved. Farm 
Pond Harvest will help you to achieve a well managed and productive 
body of water...and keep you up to date on all of the latest news 
pertaining to farm ponds. If you own a farm pond, plan to build one in 
the future, or contemplate entering the fish-farming market, you won't 
want to be without Farm Pond Harvest. 
Z4927N 
| year subscription (4 issues) 
Z4928N 2 year subscription (8 issues) 
3 EARTH ANCHORS 
. 
Constructed of high strength ste: 
Formed loop is welded shut. Screw ini 
porary or permanent anchor for many app! 
ANCHOR WITH 3’’ DIAMETER PL 
1,000 Ibs. Sh. wt. 12 Ibs. 
E234N-330 Each......... $1.68; 
ANCHOR WITH 4’° DIAMETER PLATE 
1,500 Ibs. Sh. wt. 4 Ibs. 
E233N-448 Each......... $2.84; 
Plate 
is arc welded to rod. 
stall. Makes effective tem- 
jons. 
Length 30°’, will hold 
12 or me 
ength 48’’, will hold 
12 or more, each.......... $2.56 
Agricultural Publications 
Free information on farming, livestock, forestry, soil 
science, etc. On general requests not more than one 
copy 
each of 10 publications is sent. Justification is 
required if you want more. 
List of Available Publications 
$.40 
from: 
: 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Washington, D. C. 02050 
| Pi cricusrumas 
 Roensrevarion 
For information, write: 
In California: 
California ASCS State Office 
2020 Milvia Street 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
Other states: 
look in phone book under U. S. 
Govt. 
... Agriculture, Dept. of, 
Soil Conservation District. 
l STAINLESS STEEL UTILITY OR DAIRY PAILS 
- With Tilting Handle 
Tapered design for easier pouring. Made of extra heavy, high polished, 
stainless steel with thick, flat sanitary rim. Smooth and seamless. — 
no crevices to catch dirt. Handy tilting handle. Extra thick bottom. 
16 QT. CAPACITY. 12%” top 
dia., 
7%”"’ 
i 
Mend 
Se ee 
pd 
7%"" 
base dia., 12%"" 
deep. 
629 IN-58 16-1 
1 PORTABLE WATER COOLERS — With Recessed Spi got 
: 
: Now deluxe Arctic Boy portable water coolers feature two ex- 
clusives! 
Hot-dipped inset 
is galvanized after forming to eliminate chips 
and cracks 
in zinc coating. Galvanizing after forming fills lap joint. 
completely, eliminates possible leaks, corrosion points and dirt catch- 
ers! Smooth, gleaming interior can be cleaned 
in seconds! No rough 
edges, no exposed metal, bottom rounded for free cleaning access! 
Impregnite 90 — 
plastic on 
steel 
interior. 
Permanent sanitary 
bond. No odor — no taste. 
They’re made of quality materials throughout to teke rugged 
abuse in the field...everywhere men work. Ideal for hunters ana fish- 
ermen, too. 
MIOI3N 2 gal. size, Sh. wt. 8% Ibs. ...... wate 
MIOI4N 5 gal. size. Sh. wt. 4 Ibs. S0z. ...-. 
dick 
eiclatclete attend 13.20 
2 TUNED IN HARMONY — SWISS SHEEP AND COW BELLS 
+» 
Very best Swiss bell metal. The kind of pleasure they give is 
what makes farm 
life really worthwhile. You can afford their smali 
luxury. Set of three cow bells size 4°’, 5°’ and 6%4’’. Sheep bells are 
2%", 3° and 3-5/16"". Complete with handsome leather straps. Sh. 
wt. 8 Ibs and 4 Ibs. 
C132N-A Cow Bells. Set of 3 
CI67N-D Sheep Bells. Set of 
3........ 
The Farmer and Wildlife 
A farm that encourages wildlife is much more of a self- 
balancing low-maintenance system than one without. Also 
it’s less boring. Encouraging wildlife mostly consists of not 
discouraging it so much, like leaving your brushpiles instead 
of burning them, damming the gully instead of letting it 
erode, leaving a bit of woodlot instead of stripping the land. 
B 
The Farmer and Wildlife 
Durward L. Allen 
1949, 1969; 63 pp. 
Free 
from: 
f 
: 
A Sg 
5 
Wildlife Management Institute 
The small owls are almost uni- 
Wire Bldg. 
versally beneficial. The farmer 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
will do well 
to protect them. 
A grazed woodiot is neither a good woodlot nor a good pasture. 
The farmer will profit by making it one or the other. 
Formerly it was assumed that brushy fence lines might harbor crop 
pests. More recently we have learned that they are much more likely 
to serve as cover for birds, predaceous and parasitic insects, and 
insect-eating small mammals. An Ohio biologist whose work was 
mentioned before showed that there were 32 times as many song- 
birds in brushy fencerows as in open cropfields. Such field borders 
also contained 60 times as many aphid-destroying lady beetles as 
sodded fence lines. 
In addition to songbirds, a strip of brush between fields is attractive 
to skunks, weasels, and birds of prey which feed upon the meadow 
mice in hay and grain fields. The:small animals that live in shrubby 
fencerows are for the most part either beneficial, like the shrews, 
or of kinds like the woodmouse which do not commonly destroy 
crops. Sodded field borders are likely to harbor heavy populations 
of destructive meadow mice, which spread into cropfields. These 
animals do not live in thick brush. 
