: 
gone about correctly. Wholesalers are interested in mak- 
_ing a 
profit, as are retailers. Keep this in mind when ap- 
proaching a wholesaler. Show him how he can make 
- money by 
selling to you at wholesale (like, you'll go else- 
where if he doesn’t). Often, a courtesy discount is given 
to legitimate non-profit (that means recognized by the 
state and Federal tax men) organizations. Courtesy dis- 
counts are usually offered only by retail establishments. 
They sell to you at the wholesale price and often make 
no money on the transaction. 
Wholesalers are able to se/! at lower markups and stil! 
make monéy by keeping down bookwork and unneces- 
sary stock handling. That means they want to sell in 
quantity. So get your friends together and make up as 
big a list as possible. And be prepared to pay cash. 
Don’t expect dealer service from wholesalers. You haven’t 
paid for itand if you.ask for it, you probably won’t ever 
be able to buy wholesale there again. Don’t ask to exam- 
ine everything. They can’t afford to let you. 
» Some wholesalers will sell only:to persons or firms having 
a resale tax license (State Board of Equalization in Calif- 
ornia). This usually requires posting a good sized bond 
($50 minimum) to assure that you will pay sales tax on 
everything you buy. These wholesalers don’t want the 
bookwork involved in sales tax, so they sell nothing that 
they will have to charge tax on. 
‘Often, after meeting all of the above basic requirements, 
you still can’t buy wholesale from some sources. At this 
point a “front” letterhead helps. Better get a city business 
license or DBA (Doing Business As) and stay out of trouble. 
These are usually free or cheap. 
- Buying food wholesale is more difficu/t, because the mark- 
up is very low. Sometimes a store will give you a special 
price if you buy .by the case. Or‘buy direct fromthe farmer 
at the same price you would pay in the store.-Get fresher 
produce and let the grower have the profit. He needs it. 
Most of all, remember to show the wholesaler that he will 
make a.profit by selling to you. That’s usually all you need. 
—Fred Richardson 
Moneysworth 
! don’t like their hard sell, nor their thinness, but they do in 
fact have.original information on money-saving.. 
—SB 
« Moneysworth 
Ralph Ginsberg, ed. 
$10 /yrtbiweekly) 
from: 
CALL OF 
lioheybverth 
THE WILD UNHEEDED: Despite 
110 W. 40th St. 
~ increasing public interest in ecology 
New. York, N2Y. 10016 
and worsening urban pollution, jobs 
in wilderness-management go beg- 
..ROAD HOUSE: 41nd. For_a list of Thoreau-esque 
job 
Youcan rent a home cheaply—if 
“openings, write: The Wildlife Society, 
you don't mind living dangerously 3200 Wisconsin 
Ave., NW, Washington 
, Homes in the paths of proposed 
; 
freeways have usually-been bought 
by the-city or county.and are’rented 
on-an annual lease basis at low.rates 
| 
‘ 
until time for demolition,” say Mike 
Dr. R.T. Ravenholt, a State Dept. 
and Marilyn Ferguson in their new Population expert, reveals to a pop- 
.paperback Champagne Living on a* ulation conference in Tokyo that. 
Beer Budget (G:P-PRutnam's Sons, ae has arapeageclaretprieg a wiih 
‘75¢). “Friends of ours are renting a omen eoucahitse peta oak 
‘ $35,000 house for $85 a month— 
The pill, based on prostaglandins 
untilthe bulldozers claim it. They 
(which are already used to induce 
simply called the city switchboard _ Jabor in women with overdue preg- 
and asked for the real estate depart- nancies), is insertedinto the vagina... 
ment. Some of these homes are not 
dueifor demolition for eight or ten 
~The Penny Pincher’s. Guide 
« This is‘5O0:cents worth of straight unchatty tips on beating 
‘tthe:supermarket. 
The Penny:Pincher’s Guide 
Ellen Usher-Durkin 
1971; 96 pp. 
: 
' $0.50 postpaid: 
from: ~ 
_ 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
666.Fifth Ave. 
w York, N.Y. 10019 
ns 
eS 
eee 
ee 
: 
ONSL 
; 
is acomfort. When the time is come 
to buy some goodie— color television, or a hi-fi, or a 
sewing machine— CU (Consumers Union) is there 
with the information on what's the best, or the 
best buy, or the healthiest of the brands available. 
i.e. how not to get burned (one anticipates the CU 
research on brand-name psychedelics). Consumer 
Reports /s a monthly magazine with articles on various 
classes of products and various cases of marketing 
misbehavior; the December issue is the Buying 
Guide— a dense compendium of all the quality/ 
price information, available separately for $2.65. 
/ only wish the magazine would print ads, give the 
manufacturers a place to beef back, liven up the 
Liberal Hour. 
—SB 
CONSUMER REPORTS 
Boys Shoes 
Side Prapretoes 
Partetin Wash 
FRM AR Partathe Radia 
Ca 
Nixes 
2 
Masking 
Tages 
fish Steck 
Consumer Reports 
$8.00 per year (monthly) in U.S. 
$9.00 per year other countries 
from: 
Consumers Union 
Mount Vernon, New York 
10550 
Consumer Reports Buying Guide 
$2.65 postpaid 
from: 
Consumers Union 
Mount Vernon, New York 10550 
f 
essex} CU’S KEY FINDINGS 
CU tested Super 8 cameras equipped with zoom lenses, 
automatic exposure controf and, by and large, through- 
the-lens viewing and metering. Four earned a check-rating 
—the Nizo S36, the Argus Cosina 708, the Honeywell 
Elmo Dual Filmatic 909 and the Eumig Viennette 
3. Each 
of the check-rated models enjoyed-some distinction in 
addition to high overall quality. The Nizo, light and com- 
pact, was.particularly comfortable 
to work with; the Argus 
provided 
an outstandingly wide range of zoom settings; 
the Honeywell could, with an optional back, take Single 8 
as well as Super 8 film; and the Eumig fixed-focus camera 
(a Best Buy):provided optical.performance comparable to 
the best focusing models at all but the shortest distances. 
The Bolex Macrozoom models also proved interesting be- 
cause they can focus. at extremely short distances. 
CU’S. KEY FINDINGS 
You needn’t spend a:.small fortune for a cartridge, or 
pickup, suitable for use-with a high-quality stereo system. 
The best one we tested, the check-rated Shure V15 Type 
Il (Improved) lists at $68 (but probably 
sells at closer to 
$50). Yet none but a perfectionist could.quarrel with such 
a pickup as the: Shure M91E, which we were-able to buy 
“at half its $50 list: And those planning a stereo system:on 
a tight budget.can buy the ADC 220XE, which should sell 
for under $20, or the ‘Shure M7N21D, which lists.at $18 
-but sells for a.good deal less. 
Cross-country, most food sales_occur:from Thursday to Saturday. 
If this is. true in your area, plan to shop.at the. end of the week. 
If you shop on Saturday» watch for reductions on foods the store 
doesn’t want to keep over a weekend. 
Shop when the'selection of perishables is the freshest, usually in 
mid-morning... 
Study the.fine print on labels of processed:'food. 
Ingredients must 
be listed in descending order of quantity. This legal listing tells 
the true story, which productititles or handsome pictures may not. 
A main.dish may be-called “chicken with rice,” but if the label 
ic amet: chicken, you*know it’s more accurately ‘rice with 
chicken.” 
e 
Bananas may be refrigerated once they reach the brown-flecked 
stage of perfect ripeness. They will hold for several days, but do 
lose a bit of their lush flavor from refrigeration. 
= 
| am just now getting around to reading back issues 
of thes 
W.E.C., and have come across the letters in the July 1970 
Unity Buying Service a couple of years ago | would like t ) 
submit the following in hope that others might be saved the 
pain and financial lose. 
It should be obvious that this service is a rip off. | would 
— 
discourage people from using it. There are any number of _ 
more reputable and cheaper outfits. One that! havedealt 
with in Rochester, New York is Naum Bros., 2373 Ridge 
“ 
Rd. West. They operate several stores with the same type 
of catalogue/discount plan, without the membership or 
service charge. |’m not up on their mail order procedure. 
| most strongly recommend another which | have come in 
contact with since moving to Tennessee. The name is 
Anderson’s, 404 Bernard Ave., Greeneville, Tennessee, 
37743. They have a catalogue very similar to U.B.S., and 
operate on the same discount procedure. There are, how- 
ever, several big differences. 
a3 
They charge no fee for membership 
2A. 
They have no handling charges. Only price + COD 
or postage. 
3: 
Their prices appear to be lower. E.G., the Kodak 850 
projector illustrated (pg.95 Sp 70 WEC) UBS— 
$144.00+ 5%; Andersons— $137.55 + nothing! 
CAN YOU DIG IT? !? 
Anderson’s belongs to a group of 35 such stores through the 
South-Mid West. 
I’m trying to get the names of the other 
members. One drawback is that they are very much into the 
Middle America/jewelry & silverplate stuff— but they have 
several items worth considering, especially if you are many 
miles from a big discount store. Also, the manager says that 
he will consider any requests for unlisted items (no guarantee 
that he can get them). They handle several limited items that 
they do not list, and they can.get some stuff on special 
order. 
| will personally be willing to follow up any complaints 
about poor service. 
Harvey Williams 
Greeneville, Tennessee 
While I’m at it I'd like to introduce you to another friend— Jung 
Seed Co., Randolph, Wisconsin, 53956. They have an extremely 
wide variety of vegetable and flower seeds at very reasonable prices— 
usually 20 or 25 cents per packet. They also have prices for larger 
quantities (%0z. oz or pound etc), and they handle fruit and 
ornamental trees. Only 35 cents handling charge on orders under 
$10, and they pay postage on all orders (with very few exceptions— 
parcel post or freight charges not paid to Far West). They are very 
fast and cooperative. They even sent me seeds when | was in Panama 
and paid the Air Mail postage themselves. Not organic as far as | 
know. 
Note their prices. for fruit trees, grapes and berries are as much as 
% as much as Stark Bros. 
BESSBSSBSRSSESSRESSSSRSERSRSSERSSESESSSESRSSESRRESEBEE 
Consumer Bulletin 
Over the years we've found that a less well-known magazine than 
Consumer Reports called Consumer Bulletin has a more ecological 
approach. It is published by Consumers’ Research, Inc., Washington, 
N.J. 07882, boasts of being the original consumer magazine, and 
costs $8.00, including an Annual issue. 
Audrey Newcomb 
Rochester, N.Y. 
SBSRSERSESSSRSRSRSSSESRSESERSERRESERSHESEERSSSSRBESSS 
SN 
One time when Boone leaned his gun against the mailbox he 
found a letter in it from John L. Lewis that said 
DON’T COME TO” 
‘KENTUCKY, BOYS, THE WORK’S TOO HARD AND THERE’S 
TOO DAMN LITTLE PAY’ Another time there was-a letter to 
Daniel from his brother Squire that said, “If you seea boy named 
David Ray Collier out in them woods, you send him home, he’s 
too young to roam.” 
‘David said, ‘’ There was not.” 
“'Oh yes there was too,” said his father. 
. His father’s name was Reyce.- Royce Collier. And in those 
days, before his mother’s second marriage to Wallace Davenport, 
Collier was David-Ray’s last name too. 
"Oh yes," said Royce. "Squire sent that very letter to Daniel 
Boone. You ask.Doyle here if he didn’t.” 
~ Doyle, the assistant driverand chief mechanic:for the old 
Pontiac,.only twenty-four then, tall and lean, fresh out of the army, 
sitting in the front seat beside Marcella, would nod and say that 
it was.so, and that 
if David didn’t believe it he could just ask 
Royee there. And round and round 
it would go, two men 
supporting each other's teasing lie, and sometimes it was funny 
and David would laugh, and sometimes’they would tease too far 
and hurt David's feelings, and then he would sit back into the 
crowd of cousins in the back seat and pout the rest of the.way 
to the homeplace. 
Bargain Buying 
Community 
‘2 
* 
gh
“et
na
