ance ‘most fragile to our mistakes. This book 
foots 
theme edition of Scientific American in 1970; 
-to-date. 
. Freeman and Company 
2 
el Street 
Ky 
pony 
PS ie 
Saigon fitted the new species together in ways that not only 
ynserved energy and the mineral nutrients utilized in life processes 
so conserved the nutrients by recycling them, releasing more 
_ oxygen and making possible the fixation of more energy and the 
‘support of still more life. Gradually each landscape developed a 
flora and fauna particularly adapted to that place. These new 
arrays of plants and animals used solar energy, mineral nutrients, 
___ water and the resources of other living things to stabilize the environ- 
nt, building the biosphere we know today. 
e 
The nation’s homes use almost as much energy as industry does. 
A major consumer is space heating, which for the average home 
requires as much energy as the average family car: about 70 
million B.T.U. per year, or the equivalent of 900 gallons of oil. 
The other domestic uses are for cooking, heating water, lighting 
and air conditioning. 
The available evidence suggests that, in spite of the much larger 
_ area of the oceans, by far the greater amount of energy is fixed on 
_ 
land. The oceans, even if their productivity can be preserved, do 
_ not represent a vast unexploited source of energy for support of 
____ larger human populations. They are currently being exploited at 
___ 
close to the maximum sustainable rate, and their continued use 
e 
__as a dump for wastes of all kinds makes it questionable whether 
that rate will be sustained. 
All together, in order to support one individual in our society, 
something like 25 tons of materials of all kinds must be extracted 
e 
from the earth and processed each year. This quantity seems 
certain to increase considerably in the years ahead. 
~ Malnutrition, particularly protein deficiency, exacts an enormous 
_ toll from the physical and mental development of the young in the 
‘poorer countries. This was dramatically illustrated when India 
held tryouts in 1968 to select a team to represent it in the Olympic 
_ games that year. Nota 
single Indian athlete, male or female, met 
the minimum standards for qualifying to compete in any of the 
i. 
5 
- 36 track and field events in Mexico City. No doubt this was partly 
x due to the lack of support for athletics in India, but poor nutrition 
was certainly also a large factor. The young people of Japan today 
~ are visible examples of what a change can be brought about by 
improvement in nutrition. Well-nourished from infancy, Japanese 
_ teen-agers are on the average some two inches taller than their 
elders. 
~ 
This year the U.S. will consume some 685,000 million million 
7 
B.T.U. of energy, most of it derived from fossil fuels. (One short 
____ 
ton of coal has a thermal value of 25.8 million B.T.U. The thermal 
____ 
value of one barrel of oil is 5.8 million B.T.U.) Industry takes more 
_ than 35 percent of the total energy consumption. About a third 
___ of industry’s share is in the form of electricity, which, as of 1960, 
___was generated roughly 50 percent from coal, 20 percent from 
water power, 20 percent from natural gas and 10 percent from oil. 
- 
In this book energy language is used to consider the pressing problem 
| 
e 
: 
of survival in our time——the partnership of man in nature. An 
,~ 
Environment, Power, and Society 
effort is made to show that energy analysis can help answer many 
of the questions of economics, law, and religion, already stated 
rs 
3 
= 
5 
ah 
- 
in other languages. Models for the analysis of a system are made 
- Beautiful work. Energy language is the simplifier we’ve 
by recognizing major divisions whose causal relationships are 
lacked to see our systems whole. When the cosmic yum 
indicated by the.pathways of interchange of energy and work. 
comes by, you get the ONE! all right, but that may not 
particularly help you work with connectedness. 
The 
terms and understandings in this book can. 
One self-stimulating principle of the primitive group was to 
ia 
allocate control of the energy flow of the group to individuals 
Odum’s point is that the macro-view of our energy systems 
in proportion to the work they did to increase that flow. Such 
. 
eS: 
A 
energy rewards took various forms, such as control of property, 
=— 
must be clear to allot 2 
accurate grand Wee, adapted 
political power, and status influence. The economic system was 
«mores and laws, and responsive religions responsible to 
simple, and economic reward often reflected the energy control 
___ 
biospherical ethics——or however right in detail we shall 
gained. 
; 
be wrong big. 
e 
How many persons know that the prosperity of some modern 
cultures stems from the great flux of oil fuel energies pouring 
through machinery and not from some necessary and virtuous 
properties of human dedication and political designs? 
CY) 
___ 
Environment, Power, and Society 
Howard T. Odum 
1971; 331 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 
605 Third Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016 
Bit by bit the machinery of the macroscope is evolving in various 
sciences and in the philosophic attitudes of students. The daily maps 
of worldwide weather, the information received from the high-flying 
satellites, the macroeconomic statistical summaries of nations and 
the world, the combined efforts of international geophysical 
collaborations, and the radioactive studies of cycling chemicals 
in the great oceans all stimulate the new view. Whereas men 
used to search among the parts to find mechanistic explanations, 
the macroscopic view is the reverse. Men, already having aclear 
view of the parts in their fantastically complex detail, must 
somehow get away, rise above, step back, group parts, simplify 
concepts, interpose frosted glass, and thus somehow see the big 
patterns. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
HOWARD T ODUM 
1000 kilocalories 
concentrated fossil 
fuel energy 
Forest 
ie 
leat 
ono 
[Man's activity | 
's 
[Man's activity | 
4000 kilocalories 
sunlight 
es) 
food -*7 
> 
- 
‘ 
Sea ieee 
x 
? 
Ss 
‘ 
Forest 
ee 2 
Sax 
. 
7 
—— 
: 
‘ 
Set 
ES 
he 
5 
“a See 
Field crops 
; 
“ 
aA 
‘ 
Range grass 
Energy 
Energy flow per 
square meter 
5000 calories 
Whole Systems 
per day 
heat enerev 
~~ 
elements, All of these cycles are presently 
affected by the activities of man 
ports several stages of consumers in the grazing food chain, with Peck 10 to 20 percent of 
the energy in each trophic level being passed along to the next level. The symbols represent -: 
different herbivore and carnivore species. Complexity of structure regulates bonmiais 
sparse grasses, herbs and shrubs fluctuates (shaded area). So do populations of herbivor 
and carnivores, which are characterized by large numbers of individuals but few differen 
species. Under extreme conditions most of the net production may be consumed, leading 
les of energy a 
00 AAOO 
e 
HERBIVORE 
WVVoOoOoc AAACOO C@@ 
With the turning of the earth, the sun comes up on fields, forests, aie 
: 
and fjords of the biosphere, and everywhere within the light there 
is a great breath as tons upon tons of oxygen are released from 
the living photochemical surfaces of green plants which are becoming ~ 
charged with food storages by oe onrush of solar photons. 
ie) 
The system of man has conelnpuah in excess of production. The ae \s 
products of respiration——carbon dioxide, metabolic water,and 
__ 3 
mineralized inorganic wastes——are discharged in rates in excess 
5 
of their incorporation into organic matter by photosynthesis. 
If the industrialized urban system were enclosed in a chamber 
bs og 
with only the air above it at the time, it would quickly exhaustits 
oxygen, be stifled with waste, and destroy itself since it does not 
e" 
have the recycling pattern of the agrarian system. The problems —_ 
with life support in 1970 on the space flight of Apollo 13 dramatized — 
this principle to the world. 
oe 
e 
The biosphere with industrial man suddenly added is like a ion 
aquarium into which large animals are introduced. Consumption 
nes 
temporarily exceeds production, the balance is upset, the products” 
of respiration accumulate, and the fuels for consumption become — 
scarcer and scarcer until production is sufficiently accelerated and — 
respiration is balanced. 
In some experimental systems balance is 
__ 
achieved only after the large consumers which originally started 
— 
the imbalance are dead. 
e 
DARWIN-LOTKA ENERGY LAW 
i eh 
Thus, whenever it is necessary to transform and restore the greatest — 
amount of energy at the fastest possible rate, 50 percent of it must 
go into the drain. Nature and man both have energy storages as part 
of their operations and when power storage is important, it is 
oe 
maximized by adjusting loads. 
.. .In the last century Darwin 
popularized the concept of natural selection, and early in this 
century Lotka indicated that the maximization of power for use 
purposes was the criterion for natural selection. Darwin's evolution 
ary law thus developed into a general energy law. 
‘ 
Money flows in the opposite direction to the flow of energy and 
the concept of price which operates among human bargains 
- 
adjusts one flow to be in proportion to the other. Thus aman 
— 
purchasing groceries at a store receives groceries in one direction — 
while paying money in the opposite direction. The heat losses 
of 
these transactions are small since the work involved is small. 
e 
LOOP SELECTION PRINCIPLE 
In ecological studies there is the positive feedback loop through — a 
which ‘a downstream recipient of potential energy rewards its 
source by Passing necessary materials back to it. For example, tl 
animals in a balanced system feed back to the plants in reward — 
loops the phosphates, nitrates, and other compounds required for 
their growth. A plant that has a food chain which regenerates 
— ie 
nutrients in the form it needs is therefore reinforced, and both — 
plant and animal continue to survive. Species whose work effort: 
are not reinforced are shortly eliminated, for they run out of eith 
raw materials or energy. They must be connectéd to input and 
output flows to survive. 
: 
Stability allows complex diversity and uniqueness of individuals. 
Asin Augustinian Rome, there may be golden eras——if men can 
be satisfied with small causes, for energies big enough for new _ 
causes would have to be diverted from older endeavors. This i 
ine 
turn requires a willingness to discard activities. 
