ramming a pipeline through 
the wilderness without 
knowing much about pipelines 
or wildernesses. ecology 
at the practical /evel. 
stove. 
Before we started out in the morning, Ernie always filled the stove 
i 
with shavings, kindling, and dry sticks of wood, so that once it 
was set up and the stovepipe attached at night, we would have a 
roaring fire in a few moments. Getting a fire started quickly was 
most important in really cold weather. Even in relatively mild 
weather the sooner the fire got going the better, because all cooking 
had to wait until we had melted enough snow to get the water we 
required, For melting the snow we used five-gallon gasoline cans, 
with one side cut out. Each night we used three of them, haif 
full of water, two for cooking dog feed and one for ourselves. 
But with melting the snow our nightly task was far from finished. 
Wood had to be cut. The dogs had to be unhitched and tied to 
trees. Spruce-bough bedding had to be prepared for them. Then we 
had to take in our own bedding and spread it out on our boughs. We 
had to scrape the snow from our socks, overalls, and moccasins, 
and hang them up to dry. When a little of the snow was melted we 
started the tea water, and after that the rest of the supper. While 
we were eating and afterward, the dog feed would be cooking. 
After supper there would be dishwashing, sewing. repairing 
snowshoes, and—most tedious of all—crawling, head first, into a 
sleeping bag to change films in total darkness. When the dog feed 
was done we would take it outside, pour it into separate pans for 
each dog, and let it cool. Just before going to bed we would serve 
Robert Marshall 
it. 
Alaska Wilderness 
Robert Marshall 
1965, 70; 208 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
University of California Press 
2223 Fulton Street 
Berkeley, California 94720 
25 West 45th Street 
Room 701 
New York, New York 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
cut poles, whichever happened to be most handy. Meanwhile 
| would hack down a green spruce for blocks on which to set the 
jd 
stove, saving the boughs to spread on top of the snow inside the 
tent. Ernie would cut more boughs, and soon we would forget 
we were roosting on snow, unless we happened to look under the 
This may sound like a lot of work, and actually we were kept busy 
until ten or eleven o’clock. Nevertheless these evenings were 
very pleasant. Ernie was a simple but excellent cook, and the 
meals he prepared added real joy to our life after a day of mushing. 
The piece de resistance of our suppers was always a pot of boiled 
meat. Ernie believed it essential for healthy camp life to avoid 
too much frying, and above all to avoid burned grease. The meat 
was tender sheep, which Ernie had shot late in the fall. With 
the natural cold-storage facilities of the Arctic there was no 
trouble in keeping meat all winter. We varied our suppers by 
boiling lima beans, peas, dried vegetables, rice or macaroni 
with the meat. One potful lasted us for two nights. On the second 
night it was only necessary to thaw out and heat what was left 
from the first. The same was true of fruit. We always had a pot 
of dried apples and cranberries cooked and ready for immediate 
use. The only fresh cooking necessary for supper on the second 
e 
a, 
want to learn how to swim. 
Cache Lake Country 
John J. Rowlands, Henry B. Kane 
1947, 59; 270pp. 
$5 .95 postpaid 
from: 
W.W. Norton and Company 
55 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
night was tea, biscuits, and sometimes rice or macaroni. 
Handbook for the Alaskan Prospector 
longstanding fantasy: 
learn a little about rocks, 
walk, fly, 
out there somewhere. 
set up a placer claim, 
1969; 460 pp. 
live happily ever after. 
5 
then this book let me 
pO OU peea 
know that i had to know 
from: 
more than a little 
about rocks. 
—jd 
Ernest Wolff 
Hunters of the Northern Ice 
For anyone wanting to stay alive around ocean ice this 
book is necessary: otherwise it is merely fascinating. Nelson 
was an eskimo for the U.S. Air Force. He spent four years 
engaged in the seal hunters’ life accumulating polar survival 
lore and respect for Eskimo endurance and ingenuity. 
His report is as dense and pungent and nourishing as good 
pemmican. Every sentence tells you something about ice 
formation, ice movement, finding open water, weather fore- 
casting, cold injury, ice camps, bird behavior, game habits, 
hunting tecriniques . 
. 
. survival in terrain without margin. 
—SB 
Hunters of the Northern Ice 
Richard K. Nelson 
1969; 429pp. 
$8 50 postpaid 
from: 
University of Chicago Press 
5801 Ellis Avenue 
— 
Chicago, II!. 60637 
Unlike the westerners with whom he has contact in modern times, 
the Eskimo seldom doubts what he has been told by others, 
especially if they are his elders. Thus, without previous actual 
experience in a given situation he will unquestioningly respond 
to it in the way 
that he has been told. The outsider, on the 
other hand, continually frustrates the Eskimos by doubting these 
instructions and attempting to formulate original solutions which 
he believes to be better. Those who live with Eskimos over a long 
enough period find themselves questioning less and less, and 
following whatever they are told to do by their more experienced 
Native companions. 
e 
_ Returning 
to the ice apron after retrieving a seal with an umiahaluyak. 
ft spreads his legs wide to prevent his breaking 
will use the hook of his unaak to draw the 
Handbook for the Alaskan Prospector 
Oc 
Es 
The Mineral Industry Research Laboratory 
i 
University of Alaska 
College Alaska 99701 
SETTLING 
74 Se A| 
POND 
ES 3 
w 
= 
\ 
=) 
S 
CIRCULATING 
a 
PUMP 
eI 
\ 
SETTLING 
BARRELS 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
There is one other attitude of the Eskimo which seems to be adapted 
to his economic life. This is his ability to find genuine humor 
in misfortunes that befall him, or in his own errors. It is sometimes 
explicitly stated that a hunter should laugh when things go wrong, 
because anger never helps him, while laughter makes him better 
able to overcome setbacks. In an environment where so much can 
go wrong, and it is so easy to lose something that has nearly 
been gained, such an attitude is almost a necessity. If a hunter 
has shot a bearded seal, and when the harpoon is tossed it glances 
off just as the animal sinks, this is an occasion for laughter, not for 
disgust. The old hunter, Kavik, never tired of telling stories of his 
exploits, and he would sometimes laugh until tears glistened in his 
eyes when he told of his greatest and most frustrating mistakes. 
- tips, written by a 
mellow, contented, man, who loves the 
; 
woods, knows his subject, and writes pretty well too. kane’s 
illustrations are the nicest i’ve seen. the book makes me 
—jd 
HACKSAW 
BREAD 
KNIFE 
Up on higher ground where the soil is mixed 
with sand and well drained, | plant my potatoes 
early in June, for | depend on the late crop to 
put away for the winter. We grow very fine 
potatoes here in the woods and they have a 
flavor all their own, especially when baked in 
the ashes of a campfire. There is quite a trick 
to cut seed potatoes, for you get a better yield 
if you cut them so that you get the eyes on the 
flower end and in the middle instead of the stem 
end where the potato was attached to the plant. 
When the time comes to harvest the crop we 
have to watch for sudden cold rains which make 
the potatoes soggy. Another thing is that if 
potatoes lie in the sunlight for any length of 
time after digging they turn green and are not 
much good. For keeping through the winter, 
potatoes should be stored in a dark dry place 
where the air circulates freely, but they must 
always be protected against freezing. 
Asrongement of Caissons, Pumps, Sluice, and other Equipment. 
— 
ee ee ee 
Odo i4* Peat 
Gl 
L 
> 
- 
- 
U 
tricks 
COUNTER 
Life in the North Wo 
WATER -COOLED 
REFRIGERATOR 
Cloth cover, tied a 
JOHN J. ROWLAN! 
k 
=e peea 
nstued y HENRY B. KAI 
Another sign that may mean stormy weather 
= 
is that earthy, rainy smell you sometimes 
= 
notice before a storm, especially near a muddy 
pond or marshy place. Some of this odor, which — 
at times is very unpleasant, is caused by marsh 
gas escaping from the mud at the bottom of the 
pond, where it is formed by rotting vegetation. 
This gas is most likely to bubble up from the 
bottom when the atmospheric pressure is low 
as it usually is before a storm. When the 
pressure is high and the weather clear most of 
“38 
the gas is held at the bottom. When! wasa boy — 
| would row out on a pond and drive a pole into 
the bottom and touch a match to the gas when 
it came to the top in the form of bubbles. 
Makes quite a flare for a second or so. 
In 
ia 
addition to gas, low atmospheric pressure has a 
tendency to keep odors close to the ground, 
which accounts for all kinds of strong woods 
scents, including the musky smell of animals 
just before a spell of bad weather. 
=a 
CAISSONS 
Guts 
= J 
D.R. was too far away to understand all they said, but those 
three words ran through their conversation like a refrain. “Death,” 
said Mrs. Godsey, and David smiled and said, “Yes mam, and God 
and heaven too.” Mrs. Godsey’s face was lined with age, but her 
voice and gestures were as vigorous as David’s. She had long, white 
hair, gathered behind her in a bun. Dressed in a long, white robe, 
she looked like some Old Testament prophet just stepped out of 
the Bible she carried in her hand. ‘God and heaven,” she said. 
David said, “Yes mam, and death too.” David seemed to be en- 
joying himself immensely. 
He leaned against the wall, his hand 
7 
spread out on a sign advertising Bruton’s Snuff. “Death and 
; 
heaven,” he said, and Mrs. Godsey nodded and said, “ That’s 
ai 
right, honey. And God too. We mustn’t never leave out God.” 
d 
Once when Mrs. Godsey glanced toward Urge, D.R. got so scared 
he lay down across the front seats and hid till David came back 
to the bus ten or fifteen minutes later. 
“Come on,” said David. ‘We have to walk the rest of the way.” 
D.R. asked how come. 
v 
“You can’t get a car up Trace Fork any more. We have to 
7 
walk.” 
D.R. said he wasn’t going. 
“Sure you are,” said David. ‘‘Come on, it’s only a mile to the 
“a 
homeplace.” 
D.R. said he refused to leave the bus till he had some kind of 
protection. 
David looked at him and asked him what he was 
ie 
talking about. 
“You and Mrs. Godsey were up there talking about me,” 
y 
D.R. said. 
yt 
David laughed. He'd been standing outside the bus, but now 
he got in and established himself in the driver's seat. “That's 
a very weird thing to say, D.R.” 
“| don’t care if it is,” said D.R. “It’s true.” 
“You don’t know that,” said David. “And even if it is, what 
difference does it make?” 
(continued) 
North 
Nomadics 
