The Art of Color 
“If you, unknowing, are able to create masterpieces in 
color, then unknowledge is:your way. But if you are 
unable to-create masterpieces out of your unknowledge, 
then you.ought to look for knowledge.” 
The Art of Color 
Johannes | tten 
1961,.69; 155pp. 
$35.00 posttpid 
from: 
Van Nostrand Reinhold Company 
450 West 33rd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10001 
The same goes for seeing masterpieces. This beautifully 
made book is more than a text—it is a powerful tool that 
can help you realize the physical act of seeing as a creative 
act. A way to open your mind and eyes and make the 
connections to the world more direct and immediate. The 
plates are so good that there is tangible physical pleasure 
in seeing them. Worth the giant price if you work with 
color at all—worth at least a trip to the library if you don’t. 
JOHANNES ITTEN-THE 
ART OF 
COLOR" 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
[Reviewed by Terri Gunesch] 
Yellow is the most light-giving of all hues. It loses this trait the 
moment we shade it with gray, black or violet. Y ellow is, as it 
were, a denser, material white. The further this yellowed light is 
drawn into the denseness of matter, of opacity, the more it is 
assimilated to yellow-orange, orange and red-orange. Our red 
is the stopping point of yellow, with which it is not visibly 
tinged. In the center of the yellow-to-red band, we have orange, 
as the strongest and most concentrated interpenetration of 
light and matter. Golden yellow suggests the highest sublimation 
of matter by the power of light, impalpably radiant, lacking 
transparency, but weightless as a pure vibration. Gold was 
formerly much used in painting. It signifies luminous, light-emitting 
matter. The golden domes of Byzantine mosaics and the back- 
grounds of the paintings of early masters were symbols of the 
beyond, the marvelous, the kingdom of sun and light. The 
golden aura of saints is the token of their transfiguration. The 
attainment of this state was conceived as an envelopment by 
light. This heavenly light could not be symbolized except by 
gold. 
Foundations of Modern Art 
Full of pronouncements to make you urp (“There are only three 
billion seconds in a century. Art? To make us forget it’). 
This 
1931 work still serves by odd illumination. 
Every third pronounce- 
ment or so scratches an itch you didn’t know you had. 
The pictures 
(226 of them) are splendidly peculiar— battleships, native masks, 
a survey of military formations, a fat lady, cubist paintings, an 
ancient Egyptian with glasses. 
| don’t know if the book has much 
to do with art: it has plenty to do with the tension of environment 
and anti-environment. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Frederick Ted Castle] 
Foundations of Modern Art 
Ozenfant, Trans. by John Rodker 
1952; 347 pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from: 
Dover Publications, Inc. 
180 Varick Street 
New York, N. Y. 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The early youth of a man marked out for greatness reveals his 
later quality. 
His middle age is often characterised by work that Is 
not truly representative, for self-criticism often obscures his natural 
virtues. 
Often works of this period, when technically he is most 
accomplished, mirror a malaise due to the fact that his intellect 
has not yet established full harmony with his instincts. 
The greatest 
works of art are those produced in the fifties. 
By then the master 
has drawn from his intellect all it can give, and is reaping the reward 
of his experiments. 
He discovers or rediscovers his own well-springs. 
Michael Angelo, Tintoretto, Renoir, Cezanne. 
SUSPENSE 
Our mind always tries to organize what appears unorganized or not organ- 
ized enough. 
It also trics to resolve the discontinuous in continuous, Our 
mind tends to complete the incomplete or interrupted forms, We feel first 
suspense, then satisfaction of completion. (Phenomenon much in use in music.) 
VISION & VALUE series 
Design! Prestige! $75! 
Some years ago Gyorgy Kepes revolutionized the Design industry 
with a book called The New Landscape, illustrating the convergence 
of the scientific and artistic imagery. Since then he’s been 
compiling a deep series of latest thought on motion, image, structure, 
symbol, module, so forth. 
It’s a casket of jewels, some glass but 
pretty, some valuable gemstone. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Len Fehskens] 
Education of Vision 
1965; 233 pp. $12.50 postpaid 
Structure in Art and in Science 1965; 189 pp. 
$12.50 postpaid 
The Nature and Art of Motion 1965; 195 pp. $12.50 postpaid 
Module Proportion Symmetry Rhythm 1966; 233 pp. $12.50 
The Man-Made Object 1966; 230 pp. $12.50 postpaid 
Sign Image Symbol 1966; 281 pp. $12.50 postpaid 
VISION & VALUE series $75.00 postpaid 
from: 
George Braziller 
1 Park Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
$10.08 each from Blackwell's 
(See page 2) 
The Man Stage 9 
Assume for the moment that the gentleman 
in the bowler hat insists that he is the sole 
reality, while everything else appears only 
wrecce 
in his imagination. | However, he cannot 
ae 
Pe 
bosses 
deny that his imaginary universe is populated 
4 
AK 
ae 
with apparitions that are not unlike himself. 
* 
we 
aioe 
Hence he has to grant them the privilege, 
+ Ea x | 
| 
that they themselves may insist that they are 
re’ il 
4H 
the sole reality and everything else is only a 
ee 
( ce 4 
concoction of their imaginations. On the 
fe‘ 2 
other hand, they cannot deny that their fan- 
‘ 
KX | 
i 
tasies are populated by apparitions that are 
SS 
\ 
not unlike themselves, one of which may be 
he, the gentleman with the bowler hat. 
With this the circle of contradiction is 
closed, for if one assumes to be the sole 
reality, it turns out he is the imagination 
of someone else who, in turn, insists that 
he is the sole reality. 
The resolution of this paradox establishes the reality of environment 
through evidence of a second observer. 
Reality is that which can be 
Witnessed; hence, rests on Knowledge that can be shared, that is, 
“together-knowledge,”’ or con-scientia. 
In which sense reality indeed exists for a self-reflecting organism 
will become clear by the argument that defeats the solipsistic 
hypothesis. This arguments proceeds by reductio ad absurdum of 
the thesis: 
this world is only in my imagination; the only reality 
is the imagining ‘I.’ ’ 
Heinz Von Foerster 
Sign Image Symbol 
I'm awake. 
e 
And suddenly D.R. felt Emmit in the air above him, looking 
down into the grave. He was flying in the cool night air, he was 
walking on the broken slopes above. 
6 
That's silly, D.R. thought. He’s not flying. He’s not walking. 
He’s not even 
e 
He’s not even Emmit any more. 
© 
For Emmit’s lost his name now. He’s gone free of names. 
° 
And in the cooling dark, feeling the walls of earth on either side, 
D.R. wondered what that could feel like, what it could possibly 
feel like to have no name. 
To not be David. 
e 
To not be Collier. Or Davenport or Divine Right, or even D.R. 
| have no name, he thought. 
No name, no name. 
I've joined the earth and turned to no-name 
stuff downhill from the bones of Royce, my father. 
Father. 
| remember you, my father, lying through this wall of 
earth above my head. You played the guitar and sang and drove us 
around. 
| remember seeing you carrying groceries on your shoulder 
in a box, and one time on the courthouse lawn in Hyden eating 
crackers and sardines, the two of us together. Now you are bones 
and | am bones, and let the dead bones lie. Old fish that used to 
swim here have no names. Old cows that used to pasture here for- 
gotten, without names. And people that once lived here, Indians in 
the rockhouses, digging hominy holes, dead, and only remnants of 
their living here remain, and no names. A few names fading in the 
headstones maybe, stones already sinking, leaning, eager to lie 
down. 
| am lying down. Down, down in Emmit's bed, trading 
places with him as a wake. 
Art 
Communications 
