MEAG. 
oN OF pec 
9, 
somebody is bearing executive relation to the. group, 
usually badly, so that he’s unhappy and the group is 
unhappy, and nothing much is going on besides frustration. 
But some leaders are good, and with them a lot happens 
and everybody feels good. This book takes a deep look 
into how “good” executives behave in common. 
The 
generalizations that emerge are useful to anybody with resp- 
onsibility, from the honcho of a commune to the goddam 
Pope. 
The Effective Executive 
Peter F. Drucker 
1966; 178 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row 
49 E. 33rd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Peter Principle 
The principle is: a person rises to his highest level of 
incompetence and then stays there forever because 
nobody likes to fire the formerly competent. Now 
you don’t need the book, which is mostly a witty dance 
through ramifications of the principle. Once you're 
caught in a Peter Principle blind alley, some escapes are: 
1) stop pressing up and go sideways, 2) slide back a bit 
and change direction, 3) quit completely and start over, 
4) put curtains and tasteful paintings on the walls of your 
alley and wait it out. 
—SB 
WHY ep 
BY OR LAURENCE J PETER AND RAYMOND HULL 
Oe 
‘employee tends to 
rise 10 
his 
bevel of incompetence 
Wn aierarchy, 
The Peter Principle 
Dr. Laurence J. Peter and Raymond Hull 
1969; 169 pp. 
$ 1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
666 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Miss Totland, who had been a competent student and an outstanding 
primary teacher, was promoted to primary supervisor. She now has to 
_ teach, not children, but teachers. Yet she still uses the techniques 
which worked so well with small children. 
Addressing teachers, singly or in groups, she speaks slowly and 
_ 
distinctly. She uses mostly words of one or two syllables. She 
_ explains each point several times in different ways, to be sure it 
is understood. She always wears a bright smile. 
Teachers dislike what they call her false cheerfulness and her patron- 
izing attitude. Their resentment is so sharp that, instead of trying to 
_ Carry out her suggestions, they spend much time devising excuses for 
not doing what she recommends. 
_ Miss Totland has proved herself incompetent in communicating with 
primary teachers. She is therefore ineligible for further promotion, 
and will remain as primary supervisor, at her level of incompetence. 
The difference between cases of Pseudo-Achievement Syndrome and 
Final Placement Syndrome is known as Peter’s Nuance. 
For your 
own guidance in classifying such cases, you should always ask your- 
self, ‘‘Is the person accomplishing any useful work?" If the answer is: 
a) ‘‘YES"——he has not reached his level of incompetence and there- 
fore exhibits only the Pseudo-Achievement Syndrome. 
b) ““NO”——he has reached his level of incompetence, and therefore 
exhibits the Final Placement Syndrome. 
c) “DON 
KNOW"——you have reached your level of i 
incompetence. 
ae 
2. Effective executives focus on outward contribution. They 
gear their efforts to results rather than to work. They start 
out with the question, ‘What results are expected of me?” 
rather than with the work to be done, let alone with its 
techniques and tools. 
3. Effective executives build on strengths—their own strengths, 
the strengths of their superiors, colleagues, and subordinates; 
and on the strengths in the situation, that is, on what they can do. 
They do not build on weakness. They do not start out with the 
things they cannot do. 
4. Effective executives concentrate on the few major areas where 
superior performance will produce outstanding results. They force 
themselves to set priorities and stay with their priority decisions. 
They know that they have no choice but to do first things first— 
and second things not at all. The alternative is to get nothing done. 
5. Fffective executives, finally, make effective decisions. They know 
that this is, above all, a matter of system—of the right steps in the 
right sequence. They know that an effective decision is always a 
judgment based on “dissenting opinions” rather than on “‘consensus 
on the facts.” And they know that to make many decisions fast 
means to make the wrong decisions. What is needed are few, but 
fundamental, decisions. What is needed is the right strategy rather 
than razzle-dazzle tactics, 
These are the elements of executive effectiveness—and these are 
the subjects of this book. 
The definition of a “routine” is that it makes unskilled people without 
judgment capable of doing what it took near-genius to do before; for a 
routine puts down in systematic, step-by-step form what a very able man 
learned in surmounting yesterday’s crisis. 
We know very little about self-development. But we do know one thing: 
People in general, and knowledge workers in particular, grow according 
to the demands they make on themselves. They grow according to what 
they consider to be achievement and attainment. 
If they demand little 
of themselves, they will remain stunted. 
If they demand a good deal of 
themselves, they will grow to giant stature—without any more effort 
than is expended by the nonachievers. 
To tolerate diversity, relationships must be task-focused rather than 
personality-focused. Achievement must be measured against objective 
criteria of contribution and performance. This is possible, however, 
only if jobs are defined and structured impersonally. Otherwise the 
accent will be on ‘‘Who is right?” rather than on “What is right?” In 
no time, personnel decisions will be made on “‘Do | like this fellow?” 
or ‘Will he be acceptable?” rather than by asking “Is he the man most 
likely to do an outstanding job?” 
Up The Organization 
This book has an amazing amount of truth, some of it 
pretty radical truth, about how to run an enterprise, 
whether it’s a business, a school, a commune, or a govern- 
ment. 
et bath ft ATSELEER 
Up the Organization 
auc 
Robert Townsend 
P 
' 
1970; 202 pp. 
the | 
Organization ° 
) 
$1.25. postpaid 
ele he 
from: 
Creepy 
Fawcett Publications, Inc. 
67 West 44th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
dr Rober 
Irernenet 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A lesson very few have learned:+ If you want to approach the head 
of XYZ Corporation, call him cold. Tell him who you are and why 
you want to talk to him. A direct and uncomplicated relationship 
will follow. 
The common mistake is to look for a mutual friend——or a friend's 
friend on his board, in his bank or investment bank or law firm—— 
to introduce you. This starts all sorts of side vibrations and usually 
results in a half-assed prologue by the intermediary, who is apt to 
grind both edges of his own ax. 
All decisions should be made as low as possible in the organization. 
The Charge of the Light Brigade was ordered by an officer who 
wasn't there looking at the territory. 
There are two kinds of decisions: 
those that are expensive to change 
and those that are not. 
If you can’t do it excellently, don’t do it at all. 
Because if it's not excellent it won't be profitable or fun, 
and if you're not in business for fun or profit, what the 
hell are you doing here? 
Admit your own mistakes openly, maybe even joyfully. 
Encourage your associates to do likewise by commiserating with 
them. Never castigate. Babies learn to walk by falling down. 
If 
you beat a baby every time he falls down, he'll never care much 
for walking. 
e 
Hiring. To keep an organization young and fit, don't hire anyone 
until everybody's so overworked they'll be glad to see the new- 
comer no matter where he sits. 
resident 
of th 
Sys 
1910 till th mid-twenties, Vail built the organization into th 
largest private business in the world and into one of the most 
| 
perous growth companies. 
That the telephone system is privately owned is taken for granted ir 
|
the United States. But the part of the North American continent 
—__ 
that the Bell System serves (the United States and the two most 
populous Canadian provinces, Quebec and Ontario) is the only 
. 
|
developed area in the world in which telecommunications arenot 
owned by the government. The Bell System is also the only public. iz 
utility that has shown itself capable of risk-taking leadership and 
- 
rapid growth, even though it has a monopoly in a vital area and has 
ae 
achieved saturation of its original market... . 
- 
}
|
“Our business is service’ became the Bell commitment as soon as 
Vail took over. At the time, shortly after the turn of the century, 
— 
this was heresy. But Vail was not content to preach that it was the — 
business of the company to give service, and that it was the job of 
management to make service possible and profitable. He saw to it 
that the yardsticks throughout the system by which managers and 
their operations were judged, measured service fulfillment rather 
than profit performance. Managers are responsible for service 
results, 
It is then the job of top management to organize and finance 
the company so as to make the best service also result in optimal 
; 
financial rewards. 
. 
. . 
Vail’s third decision led to the establishment of one of the most 
successful scientific laboratories in industry, the Bell Laboratories. 
Again, Vail started out with the need to make a private monopoly 
viable. Only this time he asked: ‘‘How can one make such a 
monopoly truly competitive?’”’ Obviously it was not subject to the 
normal competition from another supplier who offers the purchaser 
the same product or one supplying the same want. And yet without 
competition such a monopoiy would rapidly become rigid and 
incapable of growth and chanae. 
= 
But even in a monopoly, Vail concluded, one can organize the future 
| 
to compete with the present. 
In a technical industry such as 
—-_ 
telecommunications, the future lies in better and different 
: 
technologies. The Bell Laboratories which grew out of this insight 
were by no means the first industrial laboratory, not even in the 
United States. 
But it was the first industrial research institution 
=| 
that was deliberately designed to make the present obsolete, no 
| 
matter how profitable and efficient. 
There is serious need for a new principle of effective administration 
under which every act, every agency, and every program of government 
is conceived as temporary and as expiring automatically after a fixed 
number of years—maybe ten—unless specifically prolonged by new 
legislation following careful outside study of the program, its 
results and its contributions. 
Asi
ne 
tire'-
At
ty 
th 
AAO 
St
-<S 
——
DEPARTURE 
ae 
fe 
tn
Ordinarily the talk about their Uncle Emmit would have led 
D.R. and Marcella on into a general rap about other relatives, and 
the old days as children in Kentucky. But there were too many 
distractions for them to go very far with it that afternoon. D.R. 
was thinking about Estelle waiting at the bus station, and Marcella 
kept interrupting herself to hassle her children. About fifteen 
minutes into their conversation Herschel spilled his Pepsi and came 
demanding more, as Debbie started wailing around in the front 
yard. Marcella waited for Debbie 
to come running around the 
house to be comforted, but when she kept on crying where she 
was, Marcella jumped to her feet and ran around to see what was 
the matter. D.R. poured Herschel’s glass full of Pepsi, and started 
to refill his own. But then he decided the thing to do was go 
in and call Estelle and see what was going down back at the old 
bus station. 
“Herschel old friend, why don’t you stay here and guard this 
Pepsi Cola while | go in the house and use the telephone. Okay?” 
“Who are you going to call?” asked Herschel. 
“I've got to call a man about a dog.” 
Herschel said, ““You do not.” 
D.R. said, “I’m going to call the weather man and ask him to 
send us some rain.” 
“You're a turd,” said Herschel. 
“That's no way to talk to your friend.” 
“You're not my friend,” said Herschel. 
O.R. said, | thought me and you were good old buddies.” 
“You're a queer,” said Herschel. “Why don‘t you go somewhere 
and have a car wreck?” 
“If | did that we wouldn’t be able to wrestle any more, now 
would we?”’ 
Instantly Herschel leaped onto D.R.’s lap. Together they fell 
out of the lawn chair onto the ground. D.R. started tickling 
i 
Herschel in the ribs which made him squeal with laughter, but 
—
—
ee 
i 
i 
ng 
et 
fight back twice as hard. Herschel crawled onto D.R.'s back as 
4 
D.R. struggled to his feet. Together they staggered toward the 
} 
house, scuffling and laughing, both red in the face from the effort. 
| 
By the time D.R. and Herschel had wrestled their way back in 
:
the house Marcella had evacuated Debbie to the bathroom, where 
a 
she was having Medi-Quik sprayed on a not very badly damaged 
{ 
knee. Even without Debbie’s commotion in the bathroom it 
i 
would have been impossible to make a phone call with a nine 
i 
year old orangutang on his back, so D.R. told Marcella he was going 
, 
out to a pay phone to make a long distance call. Marcella tried 
to get him to use their house phone, but when D.R. said he wanted 
to go out she told him about a pay phone over in the shopping 
center. At the mention of the words “shopping center” Herschel 
started screaming and yelling for permission to go along. When it 
‘ i 
was clear he wasn’t going to be allowed to he yelled “| hate you,” 
at D.R. and slammed the door as hard as he could. As soon as 
al 
D.R. got in the bus he fished a roach out of the ash try, and by 
the time he found the phone booth in the shopping center he was 
blessedly stoned. 
ay 
Pe 
183. 
Organization 
Community 
a 
bes 
ee 
oot 
