x 
diminished 
The Way Things Work 
Best book for the bathroom we’ve seen. 
Nibble your way 
to knowledge of technology. 
Each two pages of the book 
is a bunch of text and a bunch of diagrams on all the big 
and little gadgets and processes you can think of, ball-point 
pens to data-processing. 
If you develop time travel, it 
might be interesting to take this book back to the sixteenth 
century and leave it under some European’s pillow. 
(Now 
think about contact with alien civilizations.) 
_sp 
Fig. Io 
FRANCIS TURBINE, SIDE VIEW 
(schematic) 
Fig. }b SECTION THROUGH A 
FRANCIS TURBINE 
from: 
Simon & Schuster 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10020 
The Way Things Work 
1967: 590 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
water inlet 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Engineers’ Illustrated Thesaurus 
| like this book better than The Way Things Work 
/t lists concepts, structures, and processes strictly by function 
instead of by object. So as you page through, the elements 
start adding up in your head in bizarre combinations. 
Let’s 
see: if we attached a mercury switch to a geared-down rotator 
on the windmill and connected it to a strobe light, then 
whenever our heads kaleidoscoped we’d know the wind was 
blowing 20 miles an hour and we’d halt all traffic on the 
pedestrial suspension bridge before it went harmonic and 
tossed all our visitors in the canyon. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Steve Durkee] 
A 
xa 
——aul 
The Engineers’ Illustrated Thesaurus 
a 
Herbert 
Herkimer 
THE 
1982; 887 pp. 
> ENGINEERS’ 
$5.00 postpaid 
( 
SoCs 
LLUSTRATED 
dae 
THESAURUS 
by Herbert Herkimer 
Chemical Publishing Co., Inc. 
200 Park Ave. So. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
: 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
DEY 
KK} 
bebehehohe 
Ws 
‘ 
JMAV/ANAN/N, 
—S— SSS SS 
VEEP PERNA xxi 
VIVA 
% ADS 
mr 
a, 
And then one night a strange thing happened. | was walking 
through that little park on Clay Street in San Francisco, that 
steep one with all those old Victorian houses around it, and | 3 
gave away a copy of my pamphlet and wound up in conversation 
with the guy who took it, this young spade kid who had the most 
intense brown eyes | have ever seen. And before long a couple 
of other people came up and joined us, and there | was, sitting 
on a park bench with six or eight or maybe even ten or twelve 
people around, some of them on the ground, some of them just 
standing with their arms folded, listening to me come on about 
4
Atlantis, about my experience with the earthquake, and my 
> 
: 
difficulties with language. And they listened. And when ' tried 
to quit talking they wouldn't let me. And finally they invited 
me over to someone’s pad, and | kept on talking. | have no idea 
now what | said, but | talked all night. By morning when someone 
‘ 
served tea and toast, there must have been fifty people in that 
apartment, and it was as if we'd all come through a magnificent 
thing together. They were as amazed as | was. No one knew what 
had happened, and yet, everyone knew. And it was a grand and 
beautiful thing. All | did was talk. 
| didn’t know what | was 
saying myself, half the time. 
It was as if the Lord had taken my 
tongue and used it Himself, as if | was but a mere vehicle for His 
message. 
| said wild stuff, crazy stuff, stuff no one had ever said 
before, and the people just could not believe what they were 
hearing. 
They began to come to me individually for advice, and | 
advised them to do incredible things. One young man came and 
said he was having sexual problems, and he asked me what he 
should do. | knew instantly. He should run for political office. 
| told him that, and it changed his life overnight. | don’t know 
why | told him that, and | don’t know for sure if he went away 
and ran for office. But | did see him some months later and he 
said everything was fine, just fine, and he shook my hand and he 
hugged and thanked me for the advice. A middle-aged black man 
who had come into a good deal of money came to me just fraught 
with worry and asked how he should spend it. | asked him where 
he had grown up. Dothan, Alabama, he said and | said good. Take 
that money and hire five hundred other black men, and all of you 
go rent or buy the finest black suits, with black hats, black canes, 
and black top coats and black sun glasses, and starting on a Monday 
morning begin drifting into Dothan one at a time, every hour or 
two another one of you just sort of amble in and walk down the 
street, and just kind of look in the windows as if nothing much 
is going on, and don’t 
speak to each other, act as if the town is 
not slowly filling up with five hundred well-dressed spades, a 
few at a time, maybe seventy-five a day, and do that for a week, 
until by Saturday there’s all five hundred of you there on Main 
Street, walking around. And this spade did that. He actually did 
it, and | saw him about a year later and he came up and shook 
my hand and said Man, you are fantastic. 
By then, of course, | began to believe | was. People would come 
and listen to me, and later pat me on the shoulder and say to me, 
trust it, man, whatever far-out thing it is that you've got going, 
trust it. And that’s what made the difference. 
| got so | could 
trust it. It was like having a big bully who’s always Picking on 
you, pushing you around, snatching your cap off your head and 
getting into your lunchbox and now and then actually beating up 
on you on your way home from school suddenly turning out to 
be your best friend. 
It was like help from some source you never 
had counted on before. 
It was like getting access to some demon 
that’s always scared you so bad you've kept a tight lid on his cage. 
And then somehow you go so crazy you lose your grip on his cage 
door and out he comes, ripping and snorting, only instead of eating 
you up or beating your ass he says hello boss, whose ass would you 
like me to whip for you today. And off you go, the two of you, 
heading down the road looking for some action. And what you 
know as you go along is that no matter what the action is, you're 
going to be good at it, you know you’re going to come out on top 
of whatever you run into because you've got this big demon out 
there working for you because he digs you for letting him out of 
his cage. 
It's like this kid, comes up to me one time in Seattle and says 
his family has kicked him out because they thought he was queer. 
He asked me what | thought he ought to do. Without hesitation 
| told him | thought he ought to go and read Finnegan‘’s Wake 
into a tape recorder, then call his family up long distance and when 
they answer turn the record on and walk away and leave them to 
deal with it. And that kid did that, and | saw him some time later 
and he shook my hand and gave me this big grin and said thank 
you, man, thank you. 
It’s a far-out thing, having people come up to you and say 
thanks for helping them. 
| guess one of the reasons my life went 
sour again was | got to liking that part of it too much. 
| got so 
| waited for it to happen, and when it didn’t it would bug me. 
There was a recognition | wanted from People that was almost 
like having a name again, and sourness was the only possible 
consequence of such craving to be named. That wonderful period 
of my life went away, and was followed by another time of 
despair. 
It was that despair that drove me on into a truly com- 
mitted effort to forget my name, to forget everything | could 
recognize myself by. It’s painful, laborious work to lose your 
attachment to identify, but | believe that once | destroy the 
manuscript telling my early history, | will have gone past the 
last serious obstacle to becoming Infinitely Nameless. 
| don’t 
want to say that categorically. To Say it categorically would be 
a speculation upon the future, and the future is of no concern to 
one who is truly nameless. 
| can say—— and this is a confession—— 
that | have got this close to destroying that manuscript twice 
before, and each time was unable to go through with it. In 1962 
| got to the front entrance of the library and couldn’t go in. In 
1966 | made it to the very stacks where the Master’s Theses are 
kept, and turned around and left empty-handed. So it’s not for 
me to say how this new effort to burn the manuscript will turn 
out. All I know is that I’m on my way to the University again, 
that I’m still trying, and that | believe that if one perseveres in 
a righteous cause, he must eventually succeed. 
Inventory 
Industry 
Ca
