Anthropology Today 
/f revising human affairs is your concern, or adapting to 
harsh social/environmental changes, the anthropological 
perspective can be enormously useful. Much of the value of 
Gary Snyder, Kurt Vonnegut, Carlos Castaneda is attributed 
by them to their study of anthropology. When under- 
standing spans remote cultures, it’s powerful understanding, 
seldom chauvinistic. 
This book from the Psychology Today fo/ks will do for 
introduction. 
Anthropology 
Toda 
1971; ae wad 
7 
$12.95 postpaid 
from: 
CRM Books 
1104 Camino Del Mar 
Del Mar, CA. 92014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Tristes Tropiques 
Unlike many a French thinker, Claude Lévi-Strauss has done 
field work. His account of tribes in Brazil galvanized 
budding anthropologists all over the world. Find here the 
inelegant roots of elegant structuralism. 
—SB 
[suggested by Michael Harner] 
Tristes peapiues 
Claude Lévi-Strauss 
1955, 1970; 403 pp. 
$3.25 postpaid 
from: 
Atheneum Publishers 
122 E. 42nd St 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
Tristes Trapiquas 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
That the object of our studies should be attainable only by continu- 
al struggle and vain expenditures does not mean that we should set 
any store by what we should rather consider as the negative aspect 
of our profession. The truths that we travel so far to seek are of 
value only when we have scraped them clean ofall this fungus. 
The Bible of the World 
A collection of the essential writings of the eight major 
religions—Hindu, Buddhist, Confucianist, Taoist, Zoro- 
astrian, Judeo-Christian, and Mohammedan. Super for 
dipping into as literature & poetry; more than adequate 
at conveying the essential sameness, rather than the 
differences between religious philosophies. 
Softly mind-expanding. 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart] 
The Bible of the World 
Robert O. Ballou, editor 
1939; 1415 pp. 
$1 2.00 postpaid 
from: 
Viking Press 
625 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
(Death concludes his discourse) 
There is that ancient tree, whose roots grow upward and whose 
branches grow downward——that indeed is called the Bright, that is 
called Brahman, that alone is called the Immortal. 
All worlds are 
contained in it, and no one goes beyond. 
Whatever there is, the whole world, when gone forth from the 
Brahman, trembles in its breath. That Brahman is a great terror, 
like a drawn sword. Those who know it become immortal. From 
terror of Brahman fire burns, from terror the sun burns, from terror 
Indra and Vayu, and Death, as the fifth, run away. 
lf a man could not understand it before the falling asunder of his 
body, then he has to take body again in the worlds of creation. 
As in a mirror, so Brahman may be seen clearly here in this body; 
as in a dream, in the world of the fathers; as in the water, he is seen 
about in the world of the Gandharvas; as in light and shade, in the 
world of Brahma. 
Having understood that the senses are distinct from the Atman, and 
that their rising and setting, their waking and sleeping, belong to 
them in their distinct existence and not to the Atman, a wise man 
grieves no more. 
The Upanishads 
° 
In hewing the wood for’an axe-handle, how do you proceed? 
Without another axe it cannot be done. 
* 
Confucianist Scriptures 
And then there was that strange element in the evolution of so many 
towns: 
the drive to the west which so often leaves the eastern part of 
the town in poverty and dereliction. 
1t may be merely the expression 
of that cosmic rhythm which has possessed mankind from the earliest 
times and springs from the unconscious realization that to move 
with the sun is positive, and to move against it negative; the one 
stands for order, the other for disorder. 
The ensemble of a people’s customs has always its particular style; 
they form into systems. 
| am convinced that the number of these 
systems is not unlimited and that human societies, like individual 
human beings (at play, in their dreams, or in moments of delirium), 
never create abso/utely: 
all they can do is to choose certain 
combinations from a repertory of ideas which it should be possible 
to reconstitute. 
What we call ‘natural’ sentiments were held in great disfavour in 
their society: 
for instance, the idea of procreation filled them with 
disgust. Abortion and infanticide were so common as to be almost 
normal——to the extent, in fact, that it was by adoption, rather 
than by procreation, that the group ensured its continuance. One 
of the main objects of the warriors’ expeditions was to bring back 
children. At the beginning of the nineteenth century it was 
estimated that not more than one in ten of Guaicuru group were 
Guaicuru by birth. 
he BIBLE 
OF THE WORLD 
Edited ly ROBERT O. BALLOU 
incellaborasion sock tenuscinacr SPIEGELBERG, 
PH.D, £:7.M. (Columbia University) and 
with the assistance and advice of HORACE 
L FtESS, rH4.0. (Columbia University) 
raul, 
Now York_- THE VIKING PRESS 
- Mcmxxxix 
We sacrifice unto the undying, shining, swift-horsed Sun. 
When the light of the sun waxes warmer, when the. brightness of the 
sun waxes warmer, then up stand the heavenly Yazatas, by hundreds 
and thousands: 
they gather together its glory, they make its glory 
pass down, they pour its glory upon the earth made by Ahura, for 
the increase of the world of holiness, for the increase of the creatures 
of holiness, for the increase of the undying, shining, swift-horsed Sun. 
And when the sun rises up, then the earth, made by Ahura, becomes 
clean; the running waters become clean, the waters of the wells 
become clean, the waters of the sea become clean, the standing 
waters become clean; all the holy creatures, the creatures of the Good 
Spirit, become clean. 
Zoroastrian Scriptures 
Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said, Who is 
this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? 
Gird up now thy loins like a man; for | will demand of thee, and 
answer thou me. 
Where wast thou when | laid the foundations of the earth? declare, 
if thou hast understanding. Who hath laid the measures thereof, 
if thou knowest? 
or who hath stretched the line upon it? Where- 
upon are the foundations thereof fastened? or who laid the corner- 
stone thereof: when the morning stars sang together, and all the 
sons of God shouted for joy? 
Job 
“A laughing outsider'once said that anthropology is only an excuse 
for not specializing; 
a humanist remarked that a good anthropologist 
was the last Renaissance man. 
.. .” 
‘}<=——_ These Anharic nomads of Ethiopia prefer the freedom of mobility to 
the accumulation of wealth practiced by the Danakil, with whom 
they trade in the village of Bati. Proud of their heritage, the 
Anharic invoke Owen Lattimore’s words, ‘‘the pure nomad is 
a 
poor nomad.” 
Among the modern Cree, there is conflict between the traditional 
Cree expectation associated with the ‘‘good man” who may counsel 
but never coerce and the Canadian government's expectations of a 
chief that he must gain compliance with their orders. 
No society is perfect. Each has within itself, by nature, an impurity 
incompatible with the norms to which it lays claim: 
this impurity 
finds outlet in elements of injustice, cruelty, and insensitivity. 
How 
are we to evaluate those elements? Anthropological enquiry can 
provide the answer. 
For while the comparison of a small number 
of societies will make them seem very different from one another, 
these differences will seem smaller and smaller as the field of 
investigation is enlarged. 
It will eventually become plain that 
no human society is fundamentally good: 
but neither is any of them 
fundamentally bad; all offer their members certain advantages, 
though we must bear in mind a residue of iniquity, apparently more 
or less constant in its importance, which may correspond to a specific 
inertia which offers resistance, on the level of social life, to all 
attempts at organization. 
When we make an effort to understand, we destroy the object of 
our attachment, substituting another whose nature is quite different. 
That other object requires of us another effort, which in its turn 
destroys the second object and substitutes a third——and so on 
until we reach the only enduring Presence, which is that in which 
all distinction between meaning and the absence of meaning disap- 
pears: 
and it is from that Presence that we started in the first place. 
It is now two thousand five hundred years since men discovered 
and formulated these truths. Since then we have discovered nothing 
new——unless it be that whenever we investigated what seemed to 
be a way out, we met with a further proof of the conclusions from 
which we had tried to escape. 
EAGLE ROCK 
Sometime between first light and actual sunrise Estelle turned 
onto a dirt road and followed it three miles to Eagle Rock State 
Park, where the sign said there was a campground. 
They really 
didn’t have time to stop and camp. 
They were almost out of 
money and the only chance they had of getting any any time soon 
was in St. Louis if they could get there by Tuesday. 
D.R.’s buddy 
Eddie owed him sixty dollars. 
Eddie had promised to pay D.R., 
but Tuesday night he was splitting St. Louis for Mexico to 
score a big bunch of grass. 
If they were going to get to St. 
Louis by Tuesday they certainly couldn't afford to lose a whole 
day camping, but, as Estelle figured it, they couldn't afford not 
to stop either. 
D.R. was getting freakier by the mile and Estelle 
thought she felt a cold coming on. 
They were both wiped out 
and Urge was an impossible mess. 
Maybe if they stopped and 
rested for a day, straightened up their gear and got some sun 
they’d both feel strong enough to make St. Louis in one more 
non-stop push. 
There was a chain across the drive-way at the park entrance 
but it was easy enough to drive around it. 
If the ranger didn’t 
come around later in the day to collect the camping fee, Estelle 
had just saved two whole dollars. 
It was a good omen. 
Stopping 
was the thing to do all right. 
As she cruised the graveled drive- 
way looking among the assorted tents and trailers for a place to 
park, she began to feel really happy. 
The campground was 
incredibly crowded, but at last she found an empty space in 
the corner farthest from the river, a narrow slot between 
a GMC 
pickup with a great hulking camper rig on top, and a green 
Porsche parked in front of a red pup tent. 
There were beer 
cans all over the place, and someone had left an enormous turd 
lying cross ways on the metal grill above the fireplace. 
But 
Estelle was so glad to be someplace in particular she didn’t let 
it bother her. 
She picked the shit up on a piece of cardboard 
and buried it under some leaves. 
In fifteen minutes she had 
most of the trash picked up, which included a plastic bag with 
some old apples in it good enough to wash and eat. 
| could even 
cook ‘em, she told herself. 
Cooked apples. Goddamn. 
Her taste 
buds went to work on an image of apples steaming in‘a pot as 
she walked off in search of a restroom. 
Anthropolo 
Whole cteme 19 
eo
