How To Do a Whole Earth Catalog 
The masked man left behind a silver bullet. 
The people said, “We'd rather 
have a scribbled diagram,” and they shot him with his silver bullet. Here’s 
our scribbled diagram. 
Researching 
For us this consisted of three big jobs. 
1) Encouraging an incoming 
flow of information— spontaneous research by the readership. 
2) Scanning “the literature’ for promising stuff. 
3) Sorting the 
good from the bad. 
1) The incentives we laid out for spontaneous suggestions were : reward 
of money ($10 for published review, later $10 for any used suggestion); 
reward of recognition (we published the name of the reviewer and 
suggestor, spelled as correctly as possible); reward of honor-by- 
association (to the extent that we kept valid high standards, and 
honored the famous suggestor no more than the teenage one); reward 
of doing a good deed (to be a noble conduit we had to stay clean); 
reward of return (to the extent that we gave good, people returned 
it). 
2) “The literature” for us consisted of Publisher's Weekly, Forth- 
coming Books in Print (both from R. R. Bowker, source of all the 
basic cataloging information on books in the U.S.— 
| consider 
R. R. Bowker a major pillar of Western Civilization; they labor 
endlessly, invaluably, without bias and of course unheralded). 
Science (who lists all the books sent to them for review), 
Scientific American (the first national publication to notice us, by 
the way), Popular Science (for tools), and later our cooperative 
competition such as Mother Earth News, Big Rock Candy Mountain, 
Canadian Whole Earth Almanac, Natural Life Styles. 
Other major sources: catalogs from the publishers, bibliographies 
in good books (especially when annotated), big book stores, 
especially Kepler’s, friends’ bookshelves, the Stanford and Menlo 
Park libraries, and our own bookshelves revisited. 
At the beginning of the CATALOG / ordered copies of promising 
titles from the publishers at 40% discount on ABA’s Single Copy 
Order Plan. After about a year of this MIT said we didn’t really 
have to pay for review copies from them. After that we requested 
free review copies from all the publishers and usually got them, 
at least on new books. 
/t took some se/f-policing to keep from 
requesting “review copies” that we just wanted to have. 
There are 
some built-in conflicts-of-interest in the reviewing business. 
3) Sorting. Fuller calls it “tuning out everything that’s irrelevant’, 
and considers it the core activity of thinking. 
It is utterly 
unglamorous; it is shovelling shit 
by the mountainload. 
| never 
spent my time reading the good stuff— whose quality was usually 
evident in 2-3 minutes. 
| spent the yellow-brown hours reading 
the lousy books, digging past their promising facades to the 
hollow within. Some of these wound up in the stove, where their 
publishers belonged. 
Sorting requires criteria for yes and no, and sets to sort within. By 
angelic good fortune | thought to spe// out our criteria at the 
beginning on page one of the first CATALOG. 
The sets (the section 
headings, devised originally as a secondary definition of our 
contents) also held up surprisingly well. Both the criteria and the 
sets became well-worn handles on the otherwise wholly unmanage- 
able mass of information that flooded in. They also helped preserve 
continuity during three years of gradually migrating values. 
At.the beginning of the CATALOG | imagined us becoming primarily a 
research organization, with nifty projects everywhere, earnest folk 
climbing around on new dome designs, solar generators, manure 
converters; comparing various sound systems, horse breeds, teaching 
methods. 
. .the only product-project we ever did was build a BD-4 
airplane, and | felt guilty about that because of the big expense for 
low yield of information. 
In fact we didn’t do enough research. Not the studious kind. 
Of 
our staff of about 26, only 2 or 3 were ever engaged in active 
search for CATALOG material. 
It could have been much more and 
better, but it never got organized, probably because of prima donna 
failings on my part. 
Reviewing 
Usually | review a book before | read it. These are almost always 
shorter, pithier, more positive and useful reviews. 
You're 
approaching the book from the same perspective as the reader— 
untamiliarity— and you're not apt to fall into imitation of the 
author's style or petty argument with his views, as critics do. 
So, | review the book, enthusiastically, on what | know from its 
title, its subject, the author, my own experience, and a hasty glance 
at the pages. 
Then! 
look a little more deeply to see if the review is 
fulfilled. 
/f not, | either rewrite the review or discard the book. 
The quickest clues to the authority of a book are its illustrations and 
its back pages. Cheap shit editor’s-idea books puff up their i/lus- 
trations. If a book has a whole page devoted to a photograph of 
nothing, with a nothing caption and credit to some manufacturer 
for the photo, throw the book. Look for photographs that contain 
real information related to the text, and captions that multiply the 
use of the picture; or diagrams that deliver complex understanding 
simply. 
In the back of the book look at the bibliography. 
If it’s 
absent, or inflated endlessly, or unannotated, or oddly limited, be 
suspicious. 
The bibliography is an easy way to compare the author’s 
judgment with your own. 
The CATALOG format for reviews includes excerpts from the book 
(or magazine or catalog). 
The excerpts should expose the book— 
convey quickly what’s in it, and deliver a few complete ideas 
independently useful to the reader. 
| always attempt to gut the 
book with the excerpts, extract its central value. Really good books 
like On Growth and Form, or Stick and Rudder, or Natural Way to 
Draw will not be gutted; practically any line or picture in them can 
be used. 
An ideal review gives the reader: a quick idea of what the item is, 
what it’s useful for, how it compares to others like it, and how 
competent the reviewer is to judge. 
(This last is why | stopped 
having unsigned reviews— the reader gradually grows familiar 
with the weaknesses and strengths of the various reviewers.) 
The horrible temptation in reviews is to show off rather than simply 
introduce the item and the reader to each other and get out of the 
way. 
Editing 
The operational word on the cover of the CATALOG is access. 
Ultimately that means giving the reader access from where he is to 
where he wants to be. Which takes work, work takes tools, tools 
need finding, and that’s where we come in. 
A good catalog is a quick-scan array of tools, where you can find 
what you want easily, with detailed information where youre 
interested. 
Our attempt to fulfill these requirements led to use-based section 
headings (Shelter, Land Use, Communications, etc.), an alphabetic 
index, and page-theme layout. 
On each page we try to have one graphic which “keys the page’, 
tells with a glance what's there. 
The hardest thing we had to learn 
was providing simple clear demarcation between items— an 
unadorned line. 
We publish considerable detailed information— 
fine print. 
Sorting 
among that is aided by a consistent code of type-faces (reviews are 
always “univers italic,” access is always “teeny”, Divine Right is 
always “bold teeny”, and so forth). 
The 1BM Selectric Composer 
makes this an easy matter. 
Still we’re not as consistent as we should 
be. 
In descending order of importance, our layout guidelines are: 
accuracy 
clarity 
quantity of information 
appearance 
Glamorous white space has no value in a catalog except as 
occasional eye rest. 
| figure the reader can close his eyes when 
he’s tired. 
| keep coming back to the reader/user because that’s who the editor 
represents. 
I’ve had to feel that my obligations to Portola Institute, 
to staff, friends, relatives, and to myself are all secondary. 
So are 
obligations to authors, suppliers, publishers, other editors. 
Usually 
there’s no conflict, but when there is the editor has to see that the 
reader wins. 
The editor’s main mechanical task is determining efficient use of 
production time and page space. 
/t’s like spreading hard butter on 
soft bread, best if you cut the task into workable hunks and 
distribute them evenly. 
/ use McBee cards, one for each item, for rough editing. 
| know 
from looking at previous CATALOGS and the new material 
approximately how many pages should be in the, say, Nomadics 
Section— 61 pp. So | take the stack of McBee cards punch-coded 
for that section and break them down into categories— mountain 
stuff, car-stuff, outdoor suppliers, survival books, etc. 
Then those 
sub-piles are put in some sensible sequence. 
Then ona big table 
the cards are separated further into 67 little page-stacks, by pairs 
(the reader sees 2 pages at a time, not one). 
The contents of those 
piles are written on my desk dummy. 
The cards are stacked in 
page sequence, and I’ve got a section rough-edited. 
There are two main work governors tacked to the wal/— 
a calendar 
showing days of production and a page-chart. 
If we have 8 weeks 
to do 448 pages, then we have to finish a signature of 64 pages 
every 6 working days, or about 11 pages a day. 
The signature- 
finished points are marked on the calendar so | know exactly how 
far behind we are and when we’lI have to start working nights to get 
copy to the printer on time. 
The page chart is big, a couple square inches for each page. 
On each 
page | write the basic information for the three layout people. As 
they finish a pair of pages they mark them off on the chart and 
look for the next ready pair. From the chart they get the number 
and name of the pages, the titles of the items (and whether they‘re 
new or to be cut out of old flats), plus the appropriate piece of 
Divine Right, and any headings. 
/n our production the editor, typist, cameraman, and three layout 
men work together. 
The editor tries to stay a couple days ahead 
of layout in fine-editing the pages, and the typist and cameraman a 
day ahead. 
When a layout guy has the copy all gathered he calls me over to see 
what the space situation is and determine what to leave out and 
what to retype or reshoot so it will fit. After he’s finished I’m 
called over again for any revisions and to try to catch the mistakes 
while they’re easy to correct. 
Two other proofreaders also try 
(while they’re indexing) before the page is flatted and sent to the 
printers. 
Just before the signature goes to press | get page-proofs for a last 
chance at corrections before the karmic soup gels irretrievably. 
Some publications make all their editorial decisions by continual 
discussion and consensus. 
| admire the ones who can make it work. 
I’ve gone the faster and possibly more limited route of strong 
central direction. 
When we have a guest editor, every bit of the authority and most of 
the responsibility is his. Now that we’re quitting, it’s all yours. 
Layout 
We use a tabloid sized page, like the magazines in the Sunday papers. 
Steve Baer’s Dome Cookbook was what convinced me it’s a good 
format. 
You have enough space on each page and spread (facing 
pair of pages) to lay out a graphic array of information with 
multiple visual relationships and plenty of freedom for the reader 
to pick his own path. Also it’s an economical size for printing on 
a web press. 
The two main disadvantages are that booksellers don’t 
like the display space a tabloid book takes up, and some readers get 
tired holding the big page up. 
(continued) 
a 
Take what you can use, and let the rest go by. 
Ken Kesey 1969 
es, 
Composition. 
1BM Selectric Composer, Evelyn Goslow. Some type 
fonts are visible at lower left. 
IBM Selectric Composer 
As far as I’m concerned this is the too/ that made our operation 
possible. 
Instead of having to send material to a type-setter— 
a 
costly, standardized, and full-of-problems procedure— 
we can sit 
down with the layout people and editors and fit copy precisely to 
the page, with all the options of last-minute corrections. 
1BM offers 
about 140 different type fonts from 6-point to 12-point in size 
(you have to buy the fonts, $30 apiece) which permits variety that 
would cost a fortune at a typesetter. 
We used 15 fonts for this 
CATALOG. 
The Composer leases for $150 /month, a bargain if you're using 
it regularly or can rent it to careful people when you aren't. 
There 
is some special knowledge without which you will wreck the machine, 
but 18M can teach it to you in about an hour. 
The machine can, in 
two typings, make the right hand side of your copy straight, like 
in newspapers, but since this saves no space and is no easier to read, 
/ think you’re wasting your time to do it. 
The Composer is a fine machine, flexible and durable (we dropped 
ours on the ground and ran wrong voltages through it in the desert; 
it kept typing). 
To see one, look up /BM in the yellow pages under 
Typewriters. 
—SB 
Larry Whiteside from IBM fixing the composer. 
Free and fast 
repair service is part of the lease contract. We needed to calla 
repairman usually 3-4 times during a production. 
!BM can furnish 
service damn near anywhere, which made travelling production a 
lot easier. 
The | Ching: After supper, sitting on the porch in the final hour 
of light that day, D-R. threw the | 
Ching. He had always been 
ceremonious when he cast the Ching; but that evening the sense of 
ceremony and ritual came more naturally to D.R. than it ever had 
before. There were no trappings. 
No candles, or bells or incense, 
none of that. There was only D.R. on the front porch of the house, 
sitting on the floor with his feet two steps down, the book beside 
him on the floor, and the coins lying loosely in his hand. D.R. was 
sitting quietly, waiting for the spirit to move him, and the spirit was 
taking its time. 
It wanted D.R. to really settle now, to fit into his 
natural place within the flow and motion all around. The day was 
ending, the night was on its way. The air was fresh and thick with 
the settling evening dew. Over by the silver-leaf maple tree some 
lightning bugs were blinking. And above them in the sky the first 
stars of the evening were popping out. Day and night were trading 
times and places, easing into one another's spheres around the world. 
And D.R. sat very still and allowed a similar change to happen 
inside him. 
(continued) 
—.—S$SA 
