_ are going to use land, chances are you'll run into a survey. 
Surveying 
surveying is the human way of pissing on all the corners of 
your property, so you know what’s yours and what is theirs. 
it is also a way of leveling, finding corners, mapping. if you 
this book seems to cover the discipline and use of the 
surveyor’s tools. 
jd 
Surveyi 
Charles,B. Breed 
1942, 1957; 495pp. 
$7 .95 postpaid 
from: 
John Wiley and Sons 
605 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ist. 
Set instrument 
on 
ground near point, with 
legs spread to give con- 
venient height. 
Without 
reference to point, move 
legs so 
that plates 
are 
nearly level. 
Tripod leg 
screws should be firm but 
not binding. 
2nd. 
Pick up instrument 
bodily without disturbing 
relative 
position of legs 
and head. 
3rd. 
Place down 
again 
with plumb-bob within 1’ 
of point and bring bob te 
within }” to 4” of point 
by shifting legs slightly. 
Remarks 
Bolt in S.W. Abutment High St. Bridge 
UAE. corner stone bound in sidewalk at #32 High St. 
Diff, 
12.48 B above A 
Fic, 51. 
DiFFERENTIAL LEVELING. 
4th. 
Swinging 
one 
or 
more legs in arc of circle 
will approximately 
level 
head 
without 
changing 
materially the position of 
sth. Press 
each leg firmly 
into ground about same 
amount, 
watching 
posi- 
tion of bob so that it will 
finally return 
to within 
#” to }” of the tack. 
Plates should still be nearly 
level. 
6th. 
Bring bob exactly 
over 
tack 
by loosening 
two adjacent leveling 
screws and shifting head. 
Then 
tighten 
leveling 
screws 
and 
proceed 
to 
level the plates. 
Blasting 
Explosives are a cheap, highly portable, concentrated source of 
energy, an industrial and agricultural tool and as such useable 
and useful to the amateur who has need of such tools. Dangerous? 
Yes, but only a small hazard with reasonable care.——consider as 
no more, NOR LESS, dangerous than a gun which has no safety 
and is never unloaded. 
Treat accordingly——particularly with regard 
to whom you allow to handle them! Can YOU use explosives?... 
Yes——with care. 
Will YOU be ALLOWED to?. . .Probably, but 
there ARE regulations and they vary too widely for generalisations. 
What would you want them for? The possible answers to that 
question would surprise most people——the uses of explosives 
range from the moulding of NASA hardware to the manufacture 
of diamonds! For the amateur though the most likely uses will 
lie in the making of access roads, foundations, land clearance 
and drainage. For instance, $25 worth of explosive will break 
up 150-400 tons of rock, or lift out and break up a dozen 
large stumps, or blow a ditch four feet deep, twelve feet wide 
at the top, tapering to four at the bottom and one hundred 
feet long. It is often, in outlying areas, cheaper to use explosives 
for a small drainage or creek diversion project than to pay the 
cost of getting a backhoe to the site. Also explosives can be 
used anywhere a man can go, which is often to places machines 
can’t. Even for a simple job like digging a trench for a 
culvert, a few dollars worth of dynamite used merely to loosen 
hard-packed soil can easily make the difference between man 
days of pick work and man hours of shovel work. 
The next question is: Where do you go for more information? 
And the answer to that is. 
.. your phone book, under “Explosives” 
in the yellow pages. 
Try first the nearest big company; du Pont 
has the most literature, Hercules seems the most helpful. 
Then try 
your nearest dealer, your local police, fire chief and Highway 
Patrol, in that order. Know before you pick up the phone what 
you want to do and simply ask for advice and help with the 
regulations to enable you to do it. It is, however, normal to find 
that about half the latter have little idea themselves, so persist 
until you have read your local regulations for yourself, if necessary 
writing to your state capital. 
It goes without saying that the most 
useful information anyone can give you is the address of a 
neighbor who is experienced in handling dynamite. 
If you are 
unlucky and have to work entirely from the book, don’t worry 
too much——there isn’t any reason why you shouldn’t do so 
safely, with no more than common sense AND RIGID ADHERENCE 
TO THE BOOK’S INSTRUCTIONS’ Without knowledge of the 
reasons behind the regulations and the book’s “Do’s and Don’ts”, 
you must not deviate in the slightest. 
In particular your local 
regulations for transport, storage and use will be framed to reflect 
local conditions and hazards——every little detail MUST be 
scrupulously observed. 
Practical literature is restricted to handouts from manufacturers 
and, for those who have $6 to invest, Blaster’s Handbook from 
E. |. du Pont de Memours, Wilmington, Delaware or Canadian 
Industries Limited, Montreal, Quebec. Imperial Chemical 
industries, Limited, Nobel Division, Stevenston, Ayrshire, 
Scotland, also provides a handbook entitled Blasting Practice. 
Whilst the handbooks admittedly contain everything, they 
necessarily therefore only devote a small fraction of their space 
to the needs of the amateur; moreover, being aimed at the 
professional, they are neither well laid out nor well written for 
anyone else. 
There is a pamphlet which, despite its small size and vaguely 
apologetic foreword, is a class above anything else in its field and 
a model of terse lucidity——“Efficient Blasting through the proper 
care and use of Safety Fuse” from the Ensign-Bickford Company, 
Simsbury, Connecticut. 
Two final points: if you want to blast near rail, power, phone, or 
pipe lines, contact the owner; and if you have charged up your 
first blast and want to know how far to retire and discover that 
the books become suddenly vague at that point——well, half a 
mile is a nice round figure. . 
. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Keith Britton, Advanced Blasting Company] 
7 
Surveying & Blasting 
Land Use 
Blasters’ 
a t=lare| eleye).¢ 
CIL Blaster’s Handbook 
$6.00 postpaid 
from WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fig. 254 
A 1.3 cu. yd. boulder 
before mudcapping. 
mudcap charge. 
Fig. 289 
An opening notch is first 
blasted in the 14’ x 14’ base of a 
127-foot brick stack. 
Old stacks, of both round and square section, whether constructed 
of brick or concrete, can be rapidly and economically felled by 
blasting where there is sufficient room. Further, they can be made 
Fig. 255 
Embedding the cartridges 
of explosive in a thin layer of clay 
increases the efficiency of the charge. 
Fig. 256 
Mudcap charges should be 
Fig. 257 
Results of an efficient 
covered with a generous coating of 
mud or sand before firing. 
If several charges in close proximity are to be shot at the same 
time, firing must be carried out by means of B-Line Detonating 
Fuse or E.B. caps because all charges must detonate simultaneously; 
otherwise the first charge to fire might dislodge those on adjacent 
boulders. Where a single charge is to be fired, a fuse and cap may 
be used. 
Rock varies greatly in hardness, density, cleavage planes, etc., 
thus charges from two to six 1%'’x8"’ cartridges per cubic yard 
may be required. If the rock is very large or its width greatly 
exceeds its height, the charge should be divided into two or more 
parts and placed so that they will have the maximum effect. In 
the case B-Line Detonating Fuse or E.B. caps should be used for 
simultaneous firing. 
to fall in the desired direction, or ‘‘on line.” 
The ‘falling notch” principle a lumberjack uses when he cuts a 
notch at the base of a tree, is the method employed. This involves 
blasting an opening cut out of that side of the stack in the direction 
of fall, and subsequently widening this cut by blasting successive 
holes, or rows of holes, on each side of it. It is essential to shoot 
the corresponding holes, or rows of holes, one on each side of the 
opening cut, simultaneously. In this way the final blast undermines each 
side of the stack at exactly the same instant and thus it topples 
over in the desired direction. Sometimes it is of assistance to drill 
a row of closely spaced holes on that side of the stack opposite 
the direction of fall. These holes are not blasted but provide a line 
of weakness so that the masonry will part readily and allow the 
Stack to break away from its foundation when the undermining 
has been completed. 
Fig. 290 
Final blast brings down 
stack shown in Fig. 289 “on line”. 
