Game design 
We are talking about how to be able to change the games 
~ that Peoples play. 
The strategy of game change is: you don’t change a game 
by winning it or losing it or refereeing it or observing it. 
You change it by leaving it and going somewhere else and 
starting a new game from scratch. If it has appeal it will 
gather its own energy. (Fighting a system, however, merely 
strengthens the system, which accounts for a lot of bitter 
revolutionaries, including victorious ones.) 
Whatever plays the game; the game is played on the field 
of the physical. Mind points don’t count unless something 
happens physically. Pain penalties are of no consequence 
unless something adapts physically. Move the molecules, 
or admit you’re a spectator. 
As mind grows mightier, and physicality stays what it is, 
the world may manifest a subtler and subtler play of 
elements, wielded with enormous finesse by intellection 
largely invisible, but ever held to this world by the mundane 
leash. | like the rule. (Margaret Fuller said, ‘| accept the 
universe.’’. Thomas Carlyle said; ‘‘She’d better.’’) 
. 
There are lots of ways to organize social behavior. The 
| 
advantage of working with games is that they are 
regenerative, if they work. The fun of playing sustains 
the game from within, from the pleasure of the players. 
Instigators need not be leaders; the game generates its 
own leadership and succession. 
Liferaft Earth 
The event we did recently called Liferaft Earth was designed 
as a game. 
Its intent was to make very personal the matter 
‘ of population control. The stadium was the news media, 
so a certain amount of theater (i.e. plot) was designed in. 
The few rules, announced far in advance of the event, were: 
a lot of people stay publicly together for a week without 
eating. Anybody may leave anytime but may not return; 
their departure is considered a death. 
The bait for the media, besides the noble cause, was 
suspense. Who would come to the event? How many 
would last the week? Who would they be? What kind of 
stuff would go on with hungry people penned up 
together? 
An additional unexpected question was, Will the sponsors 
find.a place to hold the event? We went nto our press 
conference to announce Liferaft Earth still without a 
site for it. [Nobody wanted the unknown tn their yard, 
not the University of California, Stanford, Berkeley, 
San Francisco, Tilden Park, San Mateo County. Every- 
body loved the idea, somewhere else.] So the press 
conference consisted partly of us asking for a place to 
hold our noble event. And it went pretty well—Jerry 
: 
Mander had not given much information in the press 
releases, s0 press had to come to get the news. We had 
some attractive names helping with the announcement: 
Stephanie Mffls, Dr. Eugene Schoenfeld, Don Aitken of 
Friends of the Earth, Dr. Sheldon Margen with nutritionist 
credentials at Cal, and Wavey Gravy (in his last days as 
Hugh Romney} dressed as a hamburger. Further visual 
interest—useful for TV and wirephotos—was provided by 
Earth posters, the door for the event with its sign ‘“Are 
You Ready To Die’, and a splendid model of the inflated 
10,000 sq. ft. polyethylene pillow that we planned to 
hold the event in. Even though the reporters distrusted 
us for not having a site, the item was carried on local TV 
and newspapers, and the wire services. Thank the popularity 
of environmental issues for that. 
LIFERAFT EARTH PHOTOS BY BONNIE-JEAN ROMNEY 
The following five pages chronicles a week-long event 
sponsored and organized by the CATALOG in October 1969. 
Richard Brautigan saw the end of it. The beginning of it 
was three days | spent alone on a train with excellent 
hash and Paul Ehrlich’s Population Bomb. Ehrlich had 
been a teacher of mine, back in his butterfly and my 
* tarantula days, so | knew to believe him. 
LIFERAFT 
EARTH 
SES 
Site-finding was getting truly desperate when a phone call 
trom Hayward in the East Bay came through. A guy named 
Bill Goetz, head of a poverty program office in Hayward, 
said he had seen us on Channel 2 and did we want to hold 
the event in his parking lot. | went and looked, and it was 
all wrong, too small, all at a weird angle on a hillside, out 
of anybody’s mainstream, into a different population than 
us—old folks and Spanish and social workers. 
. 
. 
. It was 
perfect. So was Goetz and his staff. So, it turned out, was 
Hayward. 
Hayward’s city manager was an old acquaintance of the head 
of Portola Institute. That meant that from the top there 
was trust. We got nothing but friendly cooperation from 
the city fire department, police department, health inspectors, 
and press. After what we’d been through, Bill Goetz and 
Hayward had our vote as All-American City of the Year. 
Who were the cast by now? Most active was Wavey 
Gravy, who had signified for the Hog Farm’s participation 
way back during the summer. Now he was inviting people 
left and right, buying toys like jacks and plastic fruit, 
hustling around. 
Frantic work was going on by the 
Southeast Inflatoenvironment group (initially Charlie 
Tilford, by now mostly Andy Schapiro and Joe Hall)—they 
were building a net to hold down the vast pillow and 
getting kicked off test sites. Slack polyethylene burns like 
napalm; inflated poly doesn’t: 
try telling that to a Fire 
Marshal. Dick Raymond of Portola Institute was 
placating our insurance company and all the others who 
needed hourly placation. Stephanie Mills was on her 
Péanned Parenthood phone inviting and reassuring. Jim 
Burleigh of People’s Architecture in Berkeley was still 
hoping to find a way to do it in Berkeley. Dan Rosenberg 
of Sierra Club, out of the blue sky had volunteered to 
help find a site (Dan is the model of something every 
business should have, a company good guy, who’s paid 
to go out and find good that needs doing, and do it). 
Back East Charlie Tilford was camped in the Union 
Carbide offices trying to get us a pillow of non-inflam- 
mable vinyl. Bill Goetz was busily soothing the concerned 
environs of his parking lot. 
Since confirmation of the site came only 2 days before 
the event, we distributed map press-releases to the media, 
and made them available to participants through offices 
in Berkeley, San Francisco and Menlo Park. The last words 
of instruction were: 
To make the event as easy as possible on the com- 
munity we're asking that participants who plan to 
starve-in not park in the immediate vicinity of the 
site. Have someone drop you off, or Park a long 
distance away. 
If you area temporary visitor, please 
do what you can to reduce traffic near the event. 
There are many people living and working in the 
neighborhood of the site who did not ask for a public 
show on their street. They deserve every courtesy. 
The Hunger Show begins on Saturday, Oct 11, with 
the door closing on the pillow at 6 pm. Whoever’s 
inside at that time is in the show. No one else comes 
in. Anyone can leave anytime (no return). 
Partici- 
pants should have their own sleeping gear and clothing 
to accommodate warm days and chilly nights. No 
food in the pillow. There is water. 
Persons with 
kidney troubles or other ailments that might be made 
worse by malnutrition should skip this token famine 
and wait for the real thing in 19?? There will be an 
MD on hand for emergencies throughout the event. 
No children fasting please; not yet. Participants 
will be asked to sign a terrifying release form which 
signifies that you’re on your own in terms of liability 
and that you don’t mind being filmed. Regarding 
legal/illegal, bear in mind that you are very visible in 
the pillow, and visible lawbreaking is punishable by 
endless inconvenience. Changing that requires some 
other kind of event. The subject of this one is: you 
are what you eat. 
Believing him, | began to wonder what belief was made of. 
Clearly, some form of personal experience, such as knowing 
an author, or knowing hunger and overcrowding. How 
many 
of us arrogant world-shapers knew hunger? Could 
we /earn it and teach it at the same time? The Hunger Show 
took shape. 
Publicly it was a failure. We lost the focus of the plastic 
pillow and we Jost the focus of staying in one place. But 
internally among the starvers, we connected with our bodies, 
with each other, with the Depression generation, with the 
Third World, and with the future in ways and depths that 
we're still sorting out. 
—SB 
This is the inflatable pillow, 100 ft x 100 ft of 4 mil polyethylene, 
that the Fire Marshall wouldn't let us use for Liferaft Earth. 
It 
was designed by Charlie Tilford. A month later the Fire Marshall 
okayed the structure for public use because a physicist told them 
it was “‘self-extinguishing’’, which it is. 
Liferaft Earth 
Robert Frank’s 37-minute 16mm color 
sound film of the Hunger Show staged 
last October by Portola Institute may 
be rented for S30 from WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG. 
“I’m sorry, Leon,” said 
Bonnie Jean, “I’m hungry and I’m 
crazy. 
Before saying how this Hunger Show went, | want to 
suggest what could be. Muster a travelling troupe of 
skilled improvisational actors and divide it into two or 
three sub-troupes. Set up a tour through college campuses 
with pre-publicity and all that. Starting on a Monday at 
each campus a hunger show begins in the theater, with 
the participants—one sub-troupe of actors and however 
many voluntary students from the college—confined 
behind chicken-wire on the stage. Let ‘em starve all 
week, building publicity, to a paid-audience performance 
On Saturday night. Now the troupe cuts loose, laying 
in every kind of stress and issue, trying to burn or 
pray their way to the center of the population mad- 
ness. 
Let whoever was the “‘leader’’ have a cowardly 
death and departure. Serve food to the audience. And 
so on. 
For the last day, Sunday morning, let audience 
in admission-free for what | can assure you is holy 
communion—the first food for the starvers. 
Liferaft Earth 
Whole Systems 30 
