Bamboo 
The adoration and utilization of a towering weed. 
Civilization as seen by a material. 
Every single thing that plastic isn’t. 
—SB 
Bamboo 
Robert Austin, Dana Levy, Koichiro Ueda 
1970; 215 pp. 
$15.00 postpaid 
from: 
John Weatherhill Inc. 
720 5th Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Bamboo is one of the most extraordinary plants that exist. 
It 
flowers perhaps once in a hundred years, and then it dies. 
It grows 
faster than anything in the world. In fact, it is sometimes possible 
to see it growing, just as one can see the hands of a large clock 
moving: there are recorded instances of bamboo’s growing four 
feet in a single day. Ina grove in spring the vitality of the surround- 
ing green pillars is almost palpable. While the stem is growing above 
ground, the root stops: when the stem has finished, then comes the 
turn of the other. Bamboo also possesses the characteristic of 
making its complete growth in about two months only. Thereafter 
it remains the same size as long as it lives. 
But bamboo is interesting for much more than this: 
it is the most 
universally useful plant known to man. 
For over half the human 
race, life would be completely different without it. The East 
and all its peoples can hardly be discussed without bamboo’s being 
taken into account. Accepted as a mere fact of life or prized for 
aesthetic reasons, it touches daily existence at a thousand points 
which vary as widely as its employment in literary metaphor and 
its use in the walls of houses. 
It serves the most mundane purposes, 
and the most refined: 
dwellings are constructed from bamboo; 
it is widely used for eating and drinking utensils and for countless 
other household implements. 
Ubiquitous, it provides food, raw 
materials, shelter, even medicine for the greater part of the world’s 
population. The interlocked roots of a bamboo grove restrain the 
river in flood and during earthquakes support the insubstantial 
dwellings of country villages. 
Dish scourer of split bamboo 
Regarded as a material to work, bamboo shows itself ‘‘grateful’’—— 
to use the artisan’s term. 
It is flexible yet tough, light but very 
Strong. 
It can be split with ease, in one direction only, never in the 
other; it may be pliant or rigid as the occasion demands; it can be 
compressed enough to keep its place in holes; after heating, it can 
be bent to take and retain a new shape. 
It is straight and possessed 
of great tensile strength. 
Conestoga Wagon 
You can still see their ruts on the American land and the 
American consciousness. Something about spacious skies 
and twenty more miles and men who feared God but not 
six straining horses. Six h.p. for freight across the Rockies, 
can you do that Detroit? 
This is a buff’s book. A definitive admiration of the wagon, 
its gear, its construction, its routes, its use, its beauty. 
—SB 
Conestoga Wagon 1750-1850 
1964-1968; 281 pp. 
CONESTOGA WAGON 
1750-1850 
$16.00 
postpaid 
a " Sj 
from: 
% i) 
George Shumway, Publisher 
R.D.7 
York, Pennsylvania 
17402 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
BED 
& RUNNING 
GEAR, 
RIGHT 
SIDE 
So one piece after another was carved out. Now a new pleasure—— 
to fit those pieces together to make the whole complete. The 
Wheel was given the proper ‘‘dish’’——an arch effect, the tire was 
the “‘shew back” and the hub the “keystone,” thus giving greater 
Strength to the wheel to carry the greater strain when on the low 
side of the road; the axles were tapered so that the spokes would 
Stand vertically from the hub down and carry the load and all the 
angle given from the hub upward; also the wheels were given 
Sufficient “\ead"’ to prevent the hubs from running hard against 
either the collar or the linch pin. 
Bamboo is valuable in controlling soil erosion in areas that are 
poorly adapted for other crops. 
It grows well both on steep 
hillsides and along the banks of rivers, its most important features 
being the interlocking root system, the mulch it produces from 
its leaves, and its habits of propagation without attention. The 
sympodial types are best suited for this purpose. 
Perkins Reedcraft 
reedwork takes time. 
that’s probably why 
there are so many 
cane bottom chairs sitting around with 
the bottoms poked out. 
my 
dad learned how to weave reeds a few years ago, 
had a lot of trouble finding literature on the craft. 
the perkins people sell reed and provide the newcomer 
with good lessons on the basic weaves as wel as 
carrying a complete line of weaving materials. 
Catalog 
from: 
H. H. Perkins Company 
free 
228 Shelton Avenue 
New Haven, Connecticutt 06506 
No. 2—DOLLS CRADLE 
Dolls cradle: made on 7 x 15 cradle base. 
This is a very attractive gift when lined, Base 
and rocker only $1.25 
Materials Complete, Postage 1 Ib. 
$2.00—Doz. 
$20.00 
[Suggested by Judy Rock] 
Jul) 
RAFFIA 
fea 
BEDROOM SCENE 
City Girl lay down across the mattress and reached for some 
books on a little stand next to the far wall. 
She straightened 
up again with Eddie’s | Ching in her hand. 
“| don’t want to throw it right now, but if you want to, 
this is Eddie’s.” 
And she held the book out to D.R. 
D.R. took it, but his mind was on City Girl now. 
Without 
having anything in particular to say, he felt like he wanted to 
talk to her, or at least to sit there in the room with her a little 
while. 
Something like that was on her mind too, because when 
D.R. sat down on the mattress beside her, City Girl put her 
arms around his neck and hugged him. 
They sat holding each 
other 
a moment. 
Then they fell over on the mattress and lay 
‘together a long time locked in a very tight embrace. 
It wasn’t a 
sexy embrace. 
It was, actually, but the sex was only one element 
of something else that was going on between them. 
City Girl 
didn’t have on any underwear, and D.R. could fell her plainly 
against him. 
His leg more or less on its own wedged in between 
her legs right up into her crotch, and her great breasts pillowed 
roundly against his chest. 
And yet it was all just a part of this 
other, larger thing between them that was going on. 
City Girl 
kissed D.R. two or three times on the mouth, and once he kissed 
her very deeply with his tongue. 
But nothing led to anything. 
It was just a crushing physical hello between two people who had 
a special bond betwen them, and when they’d said that hello 
they drew apart and lay on the mattress looking at each other. 
Finally City Girl sat up and pushed her hair back and leaned 
on a pillow propped against the wall. 
“| guess we're going to talk about Eddie being dead,” she 
said. 
“| g..g..guess so,” said D.R. 
“Is that what you want to 
d..d..do?” 
“Fuck, | don’t know what | want to do. 
All | know is 
Eddie’s dead, and that’s just the farthest out thing | ever heard 
of in all my life.” 
“How sad d..d..do you feel?” D.R. asked. 
City Girl shook her head. 
‘I don’t know. 
Not very, |! 
guess. 
| don’t get sad much.” 
“I'm fucked up in the head m..m..most of the t..t..time,” 
Said D.R. 
“Are you sad now?” asked City Girl. 
“Yeah.” 
"You look sad. 
You look damn beat up, if you want to 
know the truth. 
And that chick, what’s her name?” 
“Estelle.” 
“Jesus. 
Where'd you get with her?” 
Altamont.” 
"| was at Altamont.” 
(continued) 
—— 
Reedcraft 
Craft 
