The Way of the White Clouds 
pilgrims are religious nomads, 
people who go with a purpose, 
think as they go, 
move for a reason. 
they have constancy in flux, 
patterns in variety, 
knowledge of the void. 
this is the story of a nomad in the mountains, 
a buddhist pilgrim in tibet. 
jd 
(suggested by pam) 
The Way of the White Clouds 
Lama Anagarika Govinda 
1966;70 305pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Shambala Publications 
1409 5th Street 
Berkeley, California 94710 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
To see the greatness of a mountain, one must keep one’s 
distance; to understand its form, one must move around it; 
to experience its moods, one must see it at sunrise and sunset, 
at noon and at midnight, in sun and_in rain, in snow and in 
storm, in summer and in winter and in all the other seasons. 
He who cansee the mountain like this comes near to the life 
of the mountain,.a life that is as intense and varied as that of a 
human being. Mountains grow and decay, they breathe and 
pulsate with life. They attract and collect invisible energies 
from their surrounding; the forces of the air, of the water, 
of electricity and magnetism. they create winds, clouds, 
thunderstorms, rains, waterfalls, and rivers. They fill their 
Surroundings with active life and give shelter and food to in- 
numerable beings; such is the greatness of mighty mountains. 
The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel 
This epic poem may well turn out to be the spiritual handbook of 
the- future. In fact, our future may lie within its pages. Imminently 
suitable to the Whole Earth philosophy and this revolutionary 
generation, it traces the struggle of one hero through the successive 
stages of ego, race, mankind and all matter to a communion with the 
best post-Christian, non-Eastern concept of God I’ve run across yet; 
a struggling, ascending, evolutionary Spirit, neither Almighty, All- 
holy, nor pitiless, haphazard Nature itself. Odysseus finds it is his 
duty as the Spirit's highest, most sublime evolutionary creation to 
assist in the struggle; that his freedom, his salvation is concomitant 
with that of his God, that he must save his God to save himself, 
even from the illusion of salvation-itself. 
It’s a harsh, rugged phil- 
osophy, necessitating a joyously tragic, dionysian nihilism, but its 
essence.is pure spiritual freedom and it places the burden of action 
directly on men. 
On.the other hand, like all great epics, it can be read first on the 
superficial level of great adventure, replete with battles, orgies, 
adesert treks and primitive jungle kingdoms as Odysseus’ spiritual 
- 
journey takes him almost due south from Achaean /thaca to deca- 
© 
dence in Crete, political oppression in Egypt, down the Wile to its 
~ source near the mountain peak of his enlightenment, and on:through 
Africa to freezing death in Antarctic wastes. ‘Buddha and Christ, 
_Faust and Don. Quixote put in appearances and rap with Odysseus, 
the famed ascetic philosopher, in various adventures after his 
enlightenment. The splendid verse translation is lush, organic with 
lots of good Nature-symbolism.: 
in-short, this book’s got everything 
and covers everything... Get it and be a believer. 
[Reviewed by Thomas Edwards] 
O gypsy Life, with sun-braids, with coquetting eyes, 
for years I’ve stumbled in your light, your holy haunts, 
for years been put to shame, hunting your empty shade, 
thrashing my arms with rage, tearing the wild wind’s hair! 
Sometimes you seemed like Beauty, passion-quelling Helen, 
a shadow’s coolness, smell! of musk, or the sea’s air, 
seductive dancer paid in the ecstasy of drink 
to please our eyes with your adroit erotic tricks; 
at times, when earth embittered: mein my full youth, 
you seemed, O Life, dike the grass-widow Virtue, sad, 
unlaughing, and | seized my spear to guard you well, 
as though you-ever.cared, O-luring siren-song, 
for justice or injustice of the joys of men! 
One dawn as | gleaned the mind’s loneliness in vain, 
1 heard the seas, the heart, the earth call me for help; 
God called in greatest peril, and | rushed to build 
a head for him-to:hide in, a town in which to sleep. 
Eorgive me, Life, ifi!’ve so-stupidly pursued 
such gaudy plumes as whénce we come and where we go; 
I’ve squandered years in hunting what | thought firm flesh, 
your three great shadows:Beauty, guileless Virtue, Truth; 
but may these wanderings, too, be blessed that in good time 
brought me to your nude body cool as warbling water. 
e 
Let Death come down to slavish souls and craven. heads 
with his sharp scythe and barren bones, but:let him come 
to this lone man like a great lord to knock with shame 
on his five famous castle doors, and with great awe 
__ plunder whatever dregs that in the ceaseless strife 
“of his staunch body have not found.time as yet:to turn 
from flesh and bone into pure spirit, lightning, deeds, and joy. 
The Archer has fooled you, Death, he’s: squandered all your-goods, 
~melted down all the rusts and rots of his foul flesh 
+ till they escaped. you in. pure:spirit, and when you'come, 
254 
you'll find but trampled fires, embers,ash, and fleshly dross. 
The Way 
Nomadics 
We had crossed the feared 18,000-foot pass in perfect ease and 
Troutfishing in America 
under a cloudless sky. The sun was so hot during the ascent 
that | had discarded my warm things, but hardly had we entered 
the shadows on the other side of the pass when we were plunged 
into icy cold, that made me regret not having kept my warm 
clothing at hand. Tibet is a country where one is ever up 
against.the unexpected and where all accepted rules of nature 
seem to be changed. The contrast between sunshine and shade 
is such that if for any length of time one part of one’s body would 
be exposed to the sun, while the other remained:in the shade, 
If it’s fish you're after, goto p. 280.. For:headfishing, 
stick around. 
—SB 
Trout Fishing in America 
Richard-Brautigan 
one could develop simultaneously blisters, due to severe sunburn, 
1967; 112 pp. 
and chilblains due to the icy air in the-shade. The air is too 
rarified to absorb the sun’s heat and thus to create a medium 
$1 95 postpaid 
shadow temperature, nor is it able to protect one from the 
fierceness of the sun and its ultra-violet rays. 
from: 
Delta Books 
750.3rd Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
There was nothing | could do. | couldn't change a flight of stairs into a creek: 
or WHOLE EARTH.CATALOG 
The boy walked back to where he came from. The same thing once happened 
to me. 
| remember mistaking an old woman for a trout stream in Vermont, 
and | had:to beg her pardon. 
“Excuse me,’’.| said. ‘| thought you were a trout stream.”’ 
“I’m nat,” she said. 
e 
A little way from the shack was an outhouse with its door flung violently open. 
The inside of the outhouse was exposed like a human face and the outhouse 
seemed to say, ‘The old guy who built me crapped in here 9,745 times and 
he’s dead now and | don’t want anyone else to touch me. He was a. good guy. 
He built me with loving care. Leave me alone. |’m amonument now ’to a good 
ass gone under. There’s no mystery:here. That’s why the door’s open. 
If you 
have to crap, go in the bushes like the deer.” 
“Fuck you,” | said to the outhouse. 
“‘All |-want is a.ride down the river.” “Good luck,” he said. 
| went upstairs and there were thousands of doors there. 
I'd never 
seen so many doors before in my life. You could have built an entire 
city out of those doors. Doorstown. And there were enough windows 
up there to build a little suburb entirely out of windows. Windowville. 
The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel 
by Nikos Kazantzakis 
Translation into English Verse, Introduction, Synopsis, and Notes 
by Kimon Friar; Illustrations by Ghika; 826 pp. 
A Criterion paperback 
t turned left and went back and saw the faint glow of pearl-colored 
light. The light got stronger and stronger as | went farther back, and 
then | was in the used plumbing department, surrounded by hundreds 
of toilets. 
; 
tpaid 
The toilets were:stacked on shelves. They were stacked five toilets 
$4 95 Postpa 
high. There was a:skylight above the toilets that made glow like the 
from: 
Great Taboo Pearl of the South Sea movies. 
Simon and Schuster 
Stacked over against the wall were the waterfalls. There were about a 
630 Fifth Ave. 
dozen of them, ranging from:a drop of a few feet;to a drop of ten or 
N:Y., N.Y, 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
fifteen feet. 
There was one waterfall that was over sixty feet long. There were 
tags on ‘the pieces of the big falls describing the correct order for 
e) 
putting the falls back together again. 
Ke —o\ ACH 
Wagar 
2 
The waterfalls all had price tags on them. They were more expensive 
than the stream. The waterfalls were.selling for $49.00 a foot. 
ha 
ag : 
. aN 
Sacred 
To the Memory 
of 
John Talbot 
Who. at the Age. of Eighteen 
Had His-Ass Shot Off 
Ina Honky-Tonk 
—— 
November 1, 1936 
j 
This Mayonnaise Jar 
With.Wilted Flowers Init 
Was Left.Here Sik Months Ago 
By His Sister 
Who Is 
‘The Crazy Place Now. 
