ee 
The Reader's Adviser (vol 2) 
“A Layman’s Guide to the Best in Print in General Biography, 
History, Bibles, World Religions, Philosophy, Psychology, the 
Sciences, Folklore, the Lively Arts, Communications and 
Travel.” And, by God, it is. As access to quality, it beats 
college. 
—SB 
The Reader’s Adviser (vol. 2) 
Winifred F. Courtney, Ed. 
1969; 912 pp. 
$ 18.50 postpaid 
from: 
R. R. Bowker Co. 
1180 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N. Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
“\zaak Walton, above all other writers in English, owes his enormous 
popularity to his virtues as a man, and these virtues are what con- 
dition his style and give his work its fundamental meaning. Millions 
have read him with joy who have never caught a fish since child- 
hood, if at all. Indeed, ... 
fish he talks about are left to small boys. The second half of the 
Compleat Angler was added in late editions and written by Charles 
Cotton as a guide to trout fishing in rough water.’ Those who want 
to know how to catch fish can learn most from Cotton's additions. 
We read Izaak Walton for a special quality of soul... - for his tone, 
for his perfect attunement to the quiet streams and: flowered 
meadows and. bosky hills of the Thames valley long ago.+... 
It 
may sound outrageous to say that |zaak Walton wrote one of the 
Great Books——and that about catching fish——because he was a 
saint, but so itis. 
... 
a quietly powerful tradition, that of the contemplative laymen, 
St. Thomas More, Nicholas Ferrer, William Law, Gilbert White. 
After the eighteenth century this type is more commonly found 
in the sciences than in religion. And like Gilbert White's 
Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne, Walton's The 
Compleat Angler is, in a sense, a scientific work, an outstanding 
example of the piety of science.” 
THE 
READER'S 
ADVISER 
A Layman's Guide to the Best in 
Print in General Biography, History 
Bibles, World Religions, Philosophy 
P 
logy, the Sciences, Folklore 
the Lively Arts, Communications 
and Travel 
«* 
New llth Edition 
Winifred F. Courtney, Editor 
« 
< 
RAYA 
The Book Review 
A good book magazine. 
Carries sharp reviews, information on 
bookmaking, and talk with authors. Unglamorousand lively. 
—SB 
The Book Review 
Jay Bail, ed. 
$4 /yr (10 issues) 
from: 
The Book Review 
Box 14143 
San Francisco, DA 94114 
The most intriguing of the naturalistic justifications of death 
occurs in a book of short stories, entitled T Zero, by Italo Calvino 
(Harcourt). The argument, as presented by an unidentified 
narrator, may be summed up as this: 
The risk we ran was living: 
living forever. 
Life, says Calvino, amounts .o self repetition. When this self 
repetition is simple, as with the cell which does not die but merely 
divides and divides and divides, life extinguishes itself by overrunning 
the earth and exhausting the resources necessary for its continuation. 
Life continues only by evolving for itself the concept of seed. Once 
the seed has come into being, errors and improvements in genetic 
transmission can occur, giving rise to other species. To control 
these errors, life becomes sexual, in that genetic messages must to 
some degree ‘match’ before life will result. With the development 
of sexual reproduction, the first death of an individual occurs, and 
for the first time, reproduction entails bringing another into the 
world. Thus, death is to life as the concept of zero is to mathe- 
matics: 
it sets life free. 
Impermanence. The sound and the fury of change. Mircea Eliade is 
a Rumanian, settled here in this country, who rounds out the 
feeling of a Merton and a Suzuki with a fine fire of fiction. The 
stories in this book— Two Tales of the Occult (Herder, $5)— 
written in the personable manner of Conan Doyle’s mysteries and 
Maugham’s adventures, stories that bend reality back on itself. 
Eliade usually writes academic-intellectual books concerning 
societal mythologies. This is his first fiction translated. into English 
(other stories and novels of his have not yet been translated)— and 
these tales never stop. Always in back of, say, a pleasant chat 
between friends, an outing, is the structure of the Social Delusion, 
the falseness of time, the impermanence of people and events. 
‘Nights at Serampore’, the first story sees three Europeans wandering 
through a dense jungle near Calcutta, coming across a dream-like 
sequence of happenings between Indians, and slowly realizing that 
they're seeing the past, the past within the present time field, so 
that time itself is whipped into a different pattern in which the past 
comes out vaguely different and the present, too begins mysteriously 
changing. . 
. 
For more books, the American Book Association, Publisher's 
Weekly, R. R. Bowker, etc., all the stuff the 
CATALOG has 
used, see the history/how-to section following p. 434. 
36 
Books 
Communications 
|zaak Walton. 
By Margaret Bottrall. Pamphlet. 
British Bk. 
Centre pap. $.75 
The Art of ‘‘The Compleat Angler.” 
By John R. Cooper. Prof- 
essor Cooper teaches English and the humanities at the Uni- 
versity of Chicago. Duke Univ. Press 1967 $6.00 
WALTON, IZAAK. 1593-1683. 
The Compleat Angler: or, The Contemplative Man‘s Recreation. 
1653—1676. Dutton Everyman’s. 
1906 $2.45; ed. by John Buchan 
Oxford 1914 World's Classics 1935 $2.75 
“The Compleat Angler,’ one of the most famous books in English, 
was written by a self-educated ironmonger. Walton wrote it for his 
own pleasure as well as that of others; it not only describes the 
technique of angling, but is a contemplative essay on the peace and 
quietude attained by the fisherman. After its first appearance in 
1653 there were frequent revisions adding new: material during the 
author's lifetime. George Saintsbury called Walton's style one of a 
“singular and golden simplicity.’ 
In spite of Walton’s background 
he became recognized as a ‘’gentleman” of cultured tastes and 
learning. An Anglican and Royalist, he was overjoyed with the 
Restoration. 
In his own time, Walton was known as a biographer, 
author of the “Lives of Donne and Herbert” (Cambridge $.90) 
and ‘‘Lives of John Donne, Sir Henry Wotton, Richard Hooker, 
George Herbert and Robert Sanderson” (Oxford $2.75). 
Kenneth Rexroth wrote a charming essay on ‘‘The Compleat Angler’ 
in the Saturday Review of Sept. 16, 1967, which catches the secret 
of its enduring appeal——and that of its author shining through it: 
in America at least, most of the kinds of 
He is, in fact, an unusual embodiment of 
Science Books 
$6.50 /yr., (quarterly) 
from: 
Publications Department 
American Association for the Advancement 
of Science 
1515 Massachusetts Avenue N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
621.47. 
SOLAR ENERGY ENGINEERING. 
HALACY, D. S., Jr. Experiments With Solar Energy. NY: Norton, 1969. 
147 pp. 
illus. $4.14. 69-18892. 
Experiments with Solar Energy is a revised and updated version pf the author’s Fun 
with the Sun published in 1959. 
Being collateral reading, it might serve as a class- 
room or family science project) manual. 
materials, approximate cost, the construction and operation of devices utilizing solar 
energy; solar furnaces; cardboard cooker; solar oven; water heater; solar still; radio; 
and a solar-powered airplane. 
Emphasis is placed on the utilization of solar energy 
in space vehicles and its potential use on lunar stations that offers opportunities. to 
enterprising and imaginative young people. 
Its expanded usefulness on earth, par- 
ticularly, in arid lands is not overlooked. 
The value of this updated volume is en- 
hanced by the inclusion of clear diagrams and illustrative photographs, lists of firms 
engaged 
in solar-energy 
applications and 
a subject 
index. 
A more comprehensive —
bibliography would have been desirable. 
[See also Solar Energy by John Hoke; Watts, 
1968; S/B 4(1) 59.) SH* 
Science Books 
- 
A quarterly published by American Association for the 
Advancement of Science (the people who publish Science). 
Most of the reviews are specific and quite ni tty-gritty, if 
they don’t like a book they often cite better books on the 
same subject. 
It reviews books right on down to kinder- 
garten level; very helpful in locating non-anthropomorphic, 
factual, logical, and withal delightful books for young ones. 
[Suggested and reviewed by John Lord] 
SCIENCE BOOKS 
Directions are given on the selection of 
Demco Library Supplies 
After 3 years of handling books I’ve come to understand and 
appreciate library hardware— card catalog drawers, bookends, 
magazine protective-covers, book trucks, book repair fabric, 
record-keeping cards. Noble stuff, right up: there with fireman’s 
hats as far as 
|‘m concerned. 
—SB 
Synergy 
Extraordinary publication. It’s an on-going bibliography 
of the Subculture for libraries. 
Every two months there’s an 
issue on a new subject—Women’s Liberation, Communes, 
Ecology, Indians—with articles, pictures, and fine annotated 
bibliographies, the cheery fruit of solid.research. As | 
understand it, the service is only available to libraries: 
free. So bug your local library, or, hmmm, | wonder what 
it takes to start a library. Back issues of Synergy are worth 
getting. Also they answer questions on research problems. 
—SB 
[Suggested by William Hogan] 
Synergy 
via your local library 
: 
from: 
San Francisco Public Library 
Civic Center 
San Francisco, Ca. 94102 
Odum, Eugene. Fundamentals of Ecology. 
(2nd ed.) Saunders, 1959. 
$8.50 
A compendium of interesting ideas for ecosystem management, this 
text is useful both for understanding some possibilities for technically 
resolving our conflicts with nature and, more important, for under- 
standing actual and potential strategies employed by ecosystem 
exploiters. 
Bellamy, Edward. Looking Backward, 2000-1887. 
Modern Library, 
1951. 
A wealthy Bostonian awakens to find himself in the year 2000 A.D. 
He falls in love with the great granddaughter of his Bostonian fiancee 
and with her tours the ideal socialistic commonwealth. 
Bellamy’s 
utopia had tremendous impact on social reformers and had hundreds 
of imitators. 
Demco 
Box 1488 
Madison, Wisconsin 53701 
(C) Two Shelf Display. Holds approxi- 
mately 75-80 books on two sloping 
shelves. Dimensions: 28” long, 17” wide, 
and 39-1/2” high, including convenient 
handle formed by “U” shaped tubular 
frame. Bottom shelf 17” from floor; space 
between shelves, 11-1/4’; top shelf, 30” 
from floor. 
41-6350 —“Mist:Grayre 
eo, viesaress 
esave $54.50 
41-6351 — Light Beige .......... 
54.50 
41-6352 — Mellow Gold ......... 
54.50 
CARE Ce 
ade 
a
ee
pa 
hn
Rie
eea
