National . F isherman 
The saltiest publication | know. Fishing, boatbuilding, ocean 
conservation, oceanography, sea news. A trade publication 
_ with a dignified nod to the sea buffs. Damn good newspaper. 
[Suggested by Paul Wingate] 
The National Fisherman 
$4.00 for one year 
from: 
The National Fisherman 
22 Main Street 
Camden, Maine 04843 
* 
WANTED 
— 
CREW FOR 
OCEANOGRAPHIC 
RESEARCH 
Cook — Seaman 
Assistant Engineer 
Permanent 
- based Staten Island N.Y. 
— 
operating 
Maine 
to Bahamas 
— 
send 
information 
regarding education 
and experience. 
TWIN HULL BOAT COMPANY 
Box 
159 Hasbrouck 
Heights, 
N. 
J. 
—SB 
By D. Karl Hoppe 
The 
Dept. 
of Defense 
in 
Washington 
has begun 
an 
investigation 
into the apparent 
dumping into the ocean of a can 
of DDT, a highly toxic pesticide 
— which may have come from a 
military installation. 
The DDT can, painted an olive 
drab military color, was pulled 
from 
water 
20 
miles west 
of 
Bodega Bay, Calif., by Ferndale, 
Calif., 
fisherman 
Thomas 
C. 
Webster 
Jr., owner 
of the 
dragboats Havana and Franklin. 
Webster said that during the same 
trip to the southern fishing area, 
he and a crew of three on the 
Havana 
also 
netted 
a 
2.75” 
aircraft 
rocket, 
which 
was 
immediately 
thrown overboard 
“athe earth on.a surfboard. 
07604 
for fear of possible explosion. 
Fish Catching Methods 
of the World 
definitely not about sporttishing, 
brandt concerns himself with harvest fishing, 
food fishing, money fishing, desperation fishing, 
corporation fishing, nets, spears, traps, explosions, 
harpoons, diving equipment, and fishing with bare hands 
and teeth. its an expensive book, but i don’t know 
of another that runs 
through:everything the 
way this one does. it 
would be of particular 
use if you are going to 
try circumnavigating 
—jd 
Fish Catching Methods 
of the World 
A. von Brandt 
1964; 191pp. 
$1 5.00 postpaid 
from: 
Fishing News Books Limited 
110 Fleet Street 
London EC4, England 
X 
Fishing with hand grenades as practiced after both World Wars 
was particularly damaging. The hand grenade was actually called 
“soldier's fishhook’’. When a hand grenade was exploded in 
an experiment a diver brought up from the depths ten times more 
fish than was gathered on the surface. 
Fishing by dynamite in Greece became rather notorious, but there 
it has now also been prohibited for the reasons mentioned. It happens, 
however, that sharks are attracted by such explosions since they 
have learnt that the acoustic stimulant meant that they could 
easily get fish for themselves! Dynamite explosions are therefore 
now used in some places to attract sharks. 
Dynamite in small quantities, however, can be very useful for 
frightening the fish. Purse seiners in California use small bombs 
to frighten the fish before the gear is completely pursed and closed. 
These bombs are called “‘cherry-bombs” according to their Original 
form. In the Philippines, where fishing with large dip nets is 
practised, a small explosive is used to stun the encircled fish and 
so prevent their escape when the net is lifted. This too, however, 
is illicit, although it is well known that the use of dynamite may 
Possibly determine whether any particular operation is a success 
or not. If the fishsare not bodily damaged, they are stunned only 
temporarily and will soon recover. This fact also explains why the 
loss of fish can be relatively small after underwater explosions by 
blastings, bombs or by firing at a lake during wartime. 
Oceanography in Print 
A Whole Oceans Catalog! This pamphlet is certainly of 
use to. anyone wanting to learn about the sea. 
/t gives 
access to information ranging from “elementary” to 
“adult technical” interests. 
The preface makes a claim 
about the ease of obtaining most of the books listed 
from public resources—checked out, they are easy to 
get. 
[Reviewed by Mary McCabe] 
Ricketts, Edward F., and Jack 
Calvin. 1952. BETWEEN PACIFIC 
TIDES. 
3rd edition. Revised by 
Joel W. Hedgpeth. Stanford, Calif.: 
Stanford University Press. 
A detailed account of the habits 
and habitats of the animals 
which live in the rocky shores 
and tide pools of the Pacific 
Coast. The book is invaluable 
for its reflection of the spirit of 
a remarkable man. John 
Steinbeck’s foreword is also 
not to be missed. 
Oceanography in Print 
58 pp. 
free? from: 
Sailing Book Service 
34 Oak Avenue 
Tuckahoe, N. Y. 10707 
What Everyone Should Know About Oceanography 
A practical intro. Has all the publications, organizations, 
institutions, and-rough information on what you‘re getting 
intoee 
—SB 
What Everyone Should Know About Oceanography 
Robert M. Snyder 
1970; 50 pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
from: 
Snyder Oceanography Services 
Jupieter, Florida 33458 
Marlinspike Seamanship 
Several additions to your books on knots and sailing: (all of 
these are published by Brown, Son & Ferguson, Ltd. 52 Darnley 
Street, Glasgow, S.1. Costs are post-paid in USA) Marlinspike 
Seamanship by Leonard Popple is the classic text on wire-rope 
splicing. 
While-he is more concerned with 1-inch diameter cable, 
I've used his technique on the 3/8 in. halyards on my sailboat. 
Since professional splicing is about four dollars per, there’s more 
than just snob appeal involved, especially since the book costs 
$1.30. His other book, Advanced Ropeworking (§.80) discusses 
splicing large hemp rope, making fenders, etc. and is most valuable 
as a discussion of tools and techniques, rather than as a cookbook. 
Three books by Blandfors (see p. 57 of the Spring Catalog); Rope 
Splicing (. 75), Working in Canvas (1.00), and Netmaking (.86) are 
all well worth their prices. The latter two should be quite valuable 
.to.any tent-living commune that either plays tennis or poaches. A 
friend of mine who sailed on a five-masted bark, Antara, mentioned 
that the ship was completely re-rigged recently. Asan “instruction 
book” they used Harold Underhill’s Masting and Rigging the 
Clipper Ship and Ocean Carrier. He used the book to re-riga 
Baltic Galeas (schooner with mainsail aft). Along with several other 
books by Underhill, these are excellent introductions to how these 
sailing ships “worked”. 
(It costs $8.62) Their catalog ‘‘N” is free. 
Martin Minow 
Bromma, Sweden 
For more knots, see p. 125. 
The New World of the Oceans 
Everybody says, The Ocean /s Next, and that’s probably 
right. Every bookstore has a line of ocean popsicles for 
i 
your refreshment now. This book of Behrman’s has more 
protein than that. If you’re planning to go down to the sea 
in science, he can let you know where science has been with 
the sea. He can also get you giggling proper. 
—SB 
The New World of the Oceans 
Daniel Behrman 
1969; 436pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Little Brown and Company 
200 West Street 
Waltham, Massachusetts 02154 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
As one of its manifold functions, UNESCO has traditionally served 
as a foster home in Paris for sciences in need of a place to hang 
their international hats, offering a maximum of independence as 
long as they were willing to accept a minimum of money. (This 
is true of science everywhere—the amounts of independence and 
money are inversely related.) It is something like those little 
French country cafes that post signs announcing they will take 
customers who bring their own provisions. 
The pendulum of scientific inquiry keeps swinging between 
observation and synthesis. Aristotle had to resolve such a conflict: 
according to Sir John Murray, editor of the reports of the Challenger 
Expedition, Aristotle threw himself into the whirlpool of the 
Strait of Euripos, separating Euboea from the Greek mainland, 
because he was unable to explain it. 
w 
ADORATION OF THE LIGHT 
Beyond those looming shapes is brilliant light but here are only“ 
shadows reaching out across a vast and empty plain. I’m crossing an 
enormous floor, an ancient oceanbed so smooth | didn’t even stumble 
when the light was far away. 
I’m near it now. 
It pours down ina 
shower from up above. 
It streams, it falls, it’s a column made of 
light, a light that’s shaped like stone and stone with light inside. 
The-light’s a mass of molded stone hanging in a chamber like a 
frozen waterfall. 
It’s a stalactite shaped like some cathedral spire, hanging upside 
down, a perfect pearl of stone with light inside, shining out through 
jewels that cling like beads of moisture on a melting tower of ice. 
Above, it widens and is lost in the high, vaulted ceiling of the 
chamber. 
It narrows to a tip that points into a pool of water down 
below the rocky ledge where | now stand. 
It shines so bright above 
it blinds me to look up, but in front and down along the falling 
spire its light is soft, a comfort to my eyes. Above, the light is 
blinding white. Below, it’s tinted by the jewels to soothing amber. 
| can gaze into the amber without blinking. 
It bathes me in its 
amber, in its glow, in its love so sweet a subtle sense of danger can’t 
intrude. 
Danger tries. 
It makes a scraping sound behind me. But the love 
will not allow me to turn away. 
| hear it clearly. The sense tries hard to penetrate. 
It bangs and 
clamors for attention, but my eyes will not be moved from this love 
they finally see. 
It scrapes behind, and’ now it hisses, | feel it, coming close, my skin 
is warned and thrilled by some enormous hostile force behind. My 
flesh responds in tingling fear but my eyes are bathed in love and 
soothed by light, and in my breast is perfect adoration, without 
fear. 
But my body must respond. My body feels it:and turns itself around 
to look at David lurking in the shadows of the ledge. My eyes see 
his eyes shining in the murky dark. My stomach turns, my hair feels 
wild, but my adoration of the light remains serene. 
It’s only David's 
eyes, and lower forehead. The rest is monster, the mauth of dragon 
teeth, the chin and jaws and head leading into short, thick neck and 
shoulders are horns and scales and fur. Oh it’s true all right. He's 
“the monster-guardian of the light. But adoration is quiet in my 
breast. My love can know no fear. 
Leave fear to the flesh. The flesh is better terrified, stronger for 
the wars. Scared flesh can attack, a quick advance into the very 
teeth of monsters of the deep, throwing dust into their eyes 
swinging wildly human fingernails as claws. Oh yes, my friend. 
It’s joined now. Slink back goddamn you hide back in your lair. 
My flesh is eager and my love serene. 
It’s time, old friend. I’m 
here. 
Ocean ® 
Nomadics 
