The'Book 
of Tea” arte 
__ this book is not just abou 
) 
ion 
of worl 
past 
) 
ce to utilize and 
develop his faculties; to enable him to overcome his ego- 
centredness by joining with other people in a common task; 
and to bring forth the. goods and services needed for a 
becoming existence. Again, the consequences that flow from 
this view are endless. To organize work in such a manner 
that it becomes meaningless, boring, stultifying, or nerve- 
racking for the worker would be little short of criminal; it 
would indicate a greater concern with goods than with 
people, an evil lack of compassion and a soul-destroying 
degree of attachment to the most primitive side of this 
worldly existence. Equally, to strive for leisure as an 
alternative to work would be considered a complete 
misunderstanding of one of the basic truths of human 
existence, namely that work and leisure are complimentary 
parts of the same living process and cannot be separated 
without destroying the joy of work and the bliss of leisure. 
From the Buddhist point of view, there are therefore two 
types of mechanization which must be clearly distinguished: 
one that enhances a man’s skill and power and one that 
turns work of man over to a mechanical slave, leaving man 
in a position of having to serve the slave. How to tell the 
one from the other? The craftsman himself, says Ananda 
Coomaraswamy, a man equally competent to talk about 
the Modern West as the Ancient East, ‘the craftsman himself 
can always, if allowed to, draw the delicate distinction 
=D! 
The Book of Tea 
Kakuzo Okakura 
1964; 76pp. 
$1 postpaid 
from: 
Dover Publications 
180 Verick Street 
New York, N.Y. 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Tea began as a medicine and grew into a beverage. |n China, in the 
eighth century, it entered the realm of poetry as one of the polite 
amusements. The fifteenth century saw Japan ennoble it into a 
religion of aestheticism,—Teasim. Teaism is a cult founded on the 
adoration of the beautiful among the sordid facts of everyday 
existence. It inculcates purity and harmony, the mystery of 
mutual charity, the romanticism of the social order. It is 
between 
the machine and the tool. The carpet loom is a 
tool, a contrivance for holding warp threads at a stretch 
for the pile to be woven round them by the craftsmen’s 
essentially a worship of the Imperfect, as it is a tender attempt to 
accomplish something possible in this impossible thing we know as 
life. 
fingers; but the power loom is a machine, and its significance 
as a destroyer of culture lies in the fact that it does the 
essentially human part of the work.” It is clear, therefore, 
that Buddhist economics must be very different from the 
economics of modern materialism, since the Buddhist sees 
the essence of civilization not in a multiplication of wants 
but in the purfication of human character. Character, at the 
same time, is formed primarily by a man’s work. And work, 
properly conducted in conditions of human dignity and 
freedom, 
blesses those who do it and equally their products. 
The Indian philosopher and economist J.C. Kumarappa 
sums the matter up as follows: 
The Philosophy of Tea is not mere aestheticism in the ordinary 
acceptance of the term, for it expresses conjointly with ethics 
and religion our whole point of view about man and nature. It is 
hygiene, for it enforces cleanliness; it is economics, for 
it shows 
comfort in simplicity rather than in the complex and costly; it is 
moral geometry, inasmuch as it defines our sense of proportion to 
the universe. It represents the true spirit of Eastern democracy by 
making all its votaries aristocrats in taste. 
ye 
Craft Shops/Galleries 
Craft Shops/Galleries USA is a directory of workshop show- 
rooms, galleries and shops selling American crafts. /t con- 
tains the names and addresses, regular exhibitions, and crafts 
media handled by over 600 outlets. 
This is a potentially 
invaluable guide to: 
1) craft collectors; 2) craft makers; 
3) shopkeepers or future shopowners who would like to 
hear from No. 2 and reach No. 1. (All shops interested in 
being contacted by craftsmen are marked with an *.) 
Additionally, it contains other sources of information on 
craft exhibitions. 
“lf the nature of the work is properly appreciated and 
applied, it will stand in the same relation to the higher 
faculties as food is to the physical body. It nourishes and 
enlivens the higher man and urges him to produce the best 
he is capable of. It directs his freewill along the proper 
course and disciplines the animal in him 
into progressive 
channels. it furnishes an excellent background for man to 
display his scale of values and develop his personality.”’ 
RTOS: 
so aE, 
If 
aman has no chance of obtaining work he is in a des- 
perate position, not simply because he lacks an income but 
because he lacks this nourishing and enlivening factor of 
disciplined work which nothing can replace. 
A modern 
economist may engage in highly sophisticated calculations 
on whether full employment ‘pays’ or whether it might 
be more “economic” to run an economy at less than full 
employment so as to ensure a greater mobility of labour, a 
better stability of wages, and so forth. His fundamental 
criterion of success is simply the total quantity of goods 
produced during a given period of time. “If the marginal 
urgency of goods is low,’’ says Professor Galbraith in The 
Affluent Society, ‘‘then so is the urgency of employing the 
last man or the last million men in the labour force.’’ And 
again: “If... wecan afford some unemployment in the 
interest of stability—a proposition, incidentally, of 
impeccably conservative antecedents—then we can afford 
Crafras 
A 
to give those who are unemployed the goods that enable 
FAEGS 
AM 
—SB 
them to sustain their accustomed standard of living.”’ 
From a Buddhist point of view, this is standing the truth on 
its head by considering goods as more important than people 
people and consumption as more important than creative 
activity. It means shifting the emphasis from the worker to 
the product of work, that is, from the human to the sub- 
human, a surrender to the forces of evil. 
While the materialist is mainly interested in goods, the 
Buddhist is mainly 
interested in liberation. But the 
Buddhism is “The Middle Way”’ and therefore in no way 
antagonistic to physical well-being. It is not wealth that 
4 stands in the way of liberation but the attachment to 
wealth; not the enjoyment of pleasurable things but the 
craving for them. The keynote of Buddhist economics, 
_ therefore, is simplicity and non-violence. From an 
economist’s point of view, the marvel of the Buddhist way 
of life is the utter rationality of its pattern—amazingly 
small means leading to extraordinarily satisfactory results. 
This booklet is published by the American Crafts Council, 
a non-profit organization founded in 1943 to stimulate 
public interest in and appreciation of the work of craftsmen. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Judith Greer] 
American Crafts Council 
29 West 53rd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
Craft Horizons 
Cratt tio 
Craft Horizons 
Rose Slivka, ed. 
$10.00 
/yr (bimonthly) 
from: 
The American Crafts Council 
44 West 53rd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
R 
Sent in by John K. Green 
esurgence 
published 6 times yearly 
3s. single issues (U.S. 50 cents) 
£1 per year (U.S. $3.00) post free 
from: 
24 Abercorn Place, St. John’s Wood, 
London, N.W.S., England 
eRe 
eS ee 
ey 
LO 
ae, 
nels 
cr 
aie 
Gh or 
which has been woven concerning us. We are pictured as living 
M 
on the perfume of the lotus, if not on mice and cockroaches. It is _ 
either impotent fanaticism or else abject voluptuousness. Indian. 
spirituality has been derided as ignorance, Chinese sobriety as 
stupidity, Japanese patriotism as the result of fatalism. It has 
been said that we are less sensible to pain and wounds on account 
of the callousness of our nervous organization! 
Why not amuse yourselves at our expense? Asia returns the 
compliment. There would be further food for merriment if you 
were to know all that we have imagined and written about you. 
All the glamour of the perspective is there, all the unconscious 
homage of wonder, all the silent resentment of the new and 
undefined. You have been loaded with virtues too refined to be 
envied and accused of crimes too picturesque to be condemned. 
Our writers in the past,—the wise men who knew,—informed us that 
you had busy tails somewhere hidden in your garments, and often 
dined off a fricasse of newborn babes! Nay, we had something 
worse against you: we used to think you the most impracticable 
people on the earth, for you were said to preach what you never 
practised. 
e 
In joy or sadness, flowers are our constant friends. We eat, drink, 
sing, dance, and flirt with them. We wed and christen with flowers. 
We dare not die without them. We have worshipped with the lily, 
we have meditated with the lotus, we have charged in battle 
array with the rose and the chrysanthemum. We have even 
attempted to speak in the language of flowers. How could we live 
without them? It frightens one to conceive of a world bereft of 
their presence. What solace do they not bring to the bedside of 
the sick, what a light of bliss to the darkness of weary spirits? 
Their serene tenderness restores to us our waning confidence in the 
universe even as the intent gaze of a beautiful child recalls our lost 
hopes. When we are laid low in the dust it is thye who linger in 
sorrow Over Our graves. 
Sad as it is, we cannot conceal the fact that in spite of our 
companionship with flowers we have not risen very far above the 
brute. Scratch the sheepskin and the wolf within us will soon show 
his teeth. It has been said that man at ten is an animal, at twenty 
a lunatic, at thirty a failure, at forty a fraud, and at fifty a criminal. 
Perhaps he becomes a criminal because he has never ceased to be 
an animal. Nothing is real to us but hunger, nothing sacred except 
our own desires. Shrine after shrine has crumbled before our eyes; 
but one altar forever is preserved, that whereon we burn incense to 
the supreme idol,—ourselves. Our god is great, and money is his 
Prophet! We devastate nature in order to make sacrifice to him. We 
boast that we have conquered Matter and forget that it is Matter 
that has enslaved us. What atrocities do we not perpetrate in 
the name of culture and refinement! 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta 
THE CO-OP CRAFT STORE OF ATLANTA, 140 Spring 
Street, N.E. (Zip 30573) 10-6, Mon.-Sat. Owned by the 
Georgia Mountain Arts Products Cooperative. Appalachian 
pottery, ceramic sculpture, wood accessories, rugs, wOv- 
en accessories, leather, silk screen, dolls, mountain nov- 
elty crafts. Craft demonstrations every other weekend. 
xm = THE SIGNATURE SHOP AND GALLERIES, 3267 Ros- 
well Road. (Zip 30305, Tel. 237-4232) 9:30-5:30, Mon.-Sat. 
Blanche Reeves, Sally Adams, owners. Pottery, wood ac- 
cessories, jewelry, holloware, flatware, metal sculpture, 
wall hangings, rugs, woven accessories, glass, enamels. 
Occasional exhibitions. 
ESTELLE AGAIN 
D.R. started to throw the | Ching by himself when City Girl 
went out, but he didn’t have any coins on him. He was focused 
so well on what he was about to do he didn’t much want to inter- 
rupt it to go outside to ask somebody for some coins. But then 
he considered that maybe that was part of it, that maybe his not 
having any coins on him was crucial to the reading somehow, and 
so he yielded to that and went into the living room. 
The scene had changed a good deal since he and City Girl had 
left. Everybody except Estelle was drawn up in front of the TV 
to watch an old Charlie Chan movie called The Big Secret. Friendly 
Persuasion and Winston had a joint going back and forth between 
them that nobody else seemed much interested in. They were all 
into the number Charlie Chan was doing with the Door to the 
Mystic Palace. The door was about twelve feet high, and made out 
of some kind of shiny metal, with a big dragon embossed upon it. 
You could tell just by looking at it that a tank would have a hard 
time breaking it down. And yet, by fiddling around with the 
ayeballs of the dragon, old Charlie was about to spring the whole 
thing and enter the Mystic Palace. Everybody was so into the pro- 
gram D.R. didn’t want to disturb them, so he did the next best 
thing and went over to Estelle in the corner. 
“Have you got any coins?” asked D.R. 
Estelle looked up at D.R. It was the first time their eyes had 
met in what seemed like days. D.R. and Estelle had been waging 
some kind of silent combat ever since his acid trip, and the business 
with the Greek. Neither of them knew what the issue was, but 
they both knew that it was serious, whatever it was. Except for the 
four hours D.R. worked at the Save-More Store they had stuck 
close together ever since they got to St. Louis, but their minds 
were in separate, and hostile, galaxies. They had only been in 
St. Louis thirty six hours, but that, too, seemed like days. Eddie 
being suddenly dead had lifted St. Louis out of time onto a plane 
where each moment is forever. Death is an infinity, and so is 
thirty-six hours of life in St. Louis when you're not speaking to 
someone you ostensibly love. | ostensibly love you, Estelle, thought 
D.R. And ostensibly | love you too, thought Estelle. The meeting 
of their eyes was filled with cold, ostensible love and both thought 
what in god’s name is happening. 
(continued) 
ee 
Philosophy & Craft Access 
Craft 
