Towards a Poor Theatre 
The strongest work in theater lately is Jerzy Grotowski's. 
This is his book. Social yoga, with balls. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Robert Frank] 
Towards a Poor Theatre 
Jerzy Grotowski 
1968; 262 pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
Towards a 
PoorTheatre 
Jerzy 
Grotowski 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
If the actor, by setting himself a challenge publicly challenges others, 
and through excess, profanation and outrageous sacrilege reveals 
himself by casting off his everyday mask, he makes it possible for 
the spectator to undertake a similar process of self-penetration. 
If 
he does not exhibit his body, but annihilates, it, burns it, frees it 
from every resistance to any psychic impulse, then he does not sell 
his body but sacrifices it. He repeats the atonement; he is close to 
holiness. 
If such acting is not to be something transient and fortui- 
tous, 
a phenomenon which cannot be foreseen in time or space: 
if 
we want a theatre group whose daily bread is this kind of work—— 
then we must follow a special method of research and training. 
When | take sides against half-heartedness, mediocrity and the easy- 
come-easy-go attitude which takes everything for granted, it is simply 
because we must create things which are firmly orientated towards 
either light or darkness. 
But we must remember that around that 
which is luminous within us, there exists a shroud of darkness which 
we Can penetrate but not annihilate. 
Contact is one of the most essential things. Often when an actor 
speaks of contact, or thinks of contact, he believes that it means 
to gaze fixedly. But this is not contact. 
It is only a position, a 
situation. Contact is not staring, it is to see. Now | am in contact 
with you, | see which of you is against me. 
| see one person who 
is indifferent, another who listens with some interest and someone 
who smiles. 
All this changes my actions; it is contact, and it forces 
me to change my way of acting. 
Scenery for the Theatre 
me and carl were stage carpenters 
once upon a time 
and we built a good part 
of what’s in this book, 
flats, traps, platforms, risers, 
doorways, windows, parallels, 
bartables, machineguns, crossbows . 
. 
. 
the standard procedures, tools, 
and tricks 
for the grand illusion are here. 
maybe someone can use this book, 
and a Iittle soul 
and breathe some life back into 
the theater, 
bring it out into the streets. 
—jd 
La 
poec for the Theatre 
Burris-Meyer and Cole 
1938;66; 473pp. 
$32.50 postpaid 
from: 
Little, Brown and Company 
200 West Street 
Waltham, Massachusetts 02154 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fig. VIII-36. 
A cantilevered balcony 
Characteristics of the Craft. Scene construction is chiefly a specialized 
type of joinery. The materials and technique of the woodworker are 
adapted and other techniques and materials introduced for the manu- 
facture of structures which differ from the ordinary product of the 
carpentry shop, cabinet shop, or woodworking mill. The nature and 
uses of scenery impose requirements which make scene construction 
a craft by itself with which the ordinary carpenter or cabinet maker 
is unfamiliar. 
Scene carpentry differs from other forms of carpentry and cabinet- 
work in several respects: 1. The objects built must be demountable 
and portable, and yet when assembled they must show no evidence 
of joining. 2. Scenery is built for use during a short period of time, 
as compared with furniture, dwellings, etc. 3. Scenery presents only 
one finished side or face to the audience. 4. Scenery is never seen 
or examined at close range. 
Scenery which has to be demountable and portable must be built 
in pieces which fit neatly together and which are strong enough 
to withstand intermittent and often rough handling. The frames 
must hold their shapes rigidly so that the fit is assured each time 
they are assembled. There can be no cutting to fit when the scenery 
reaches the stage. Each piece must be constructed exactly to size 
and shape as planned. Rebuilding of scenery, when it reaches the 
stage, is costly. 
The fact that scenery is used for a shorter period of time than other 
carpentered objects allows the use of lumber of smaller cross section 
than is generally used in weight-bearing structures, since deterior- 
ation and constant use do not enter into the determination of the 
safety factors. For the same reasons and for reasons of workability, 
softwoods are used in scene carpentry, where hardwoods would be 
used in ordinary carpentry and cabinetwork. 
Akropolis: Masks created solely by the facial muscles (Zygmunt Molik, Zbigniew Cynkutis, Rena 
Mirecka). Photo: Teatr-Laboratorium. 
Stage Make Up 
In San Francisco in the days when everyone was painting 
their faces, it was strictly fauve: 
My face is gobs of color, 
let’s ball. 
Except for Page Bruwning. 
Page was a Merry 
Prankster who wound up doing time in jail with Kesey. 
His particular outlaw talent, besides dope, was his face. 
/n the Boyscouts he’d learned the rudiments of makeup/ 
war paint, and that skill blossomed into: 
Page at the 
Acid Tests. 
A black and white streamlined living skull 
wearing a cape. 
A red and blue face, one side red, the 
other blue. 
A face of flames. 
/ wish this book had been around then. 
Somebody would 
have got one for Page and let him go for the next higher 
level. 
He could have come as Kesey, as President 
Johnson, as an infant, as himself enlightened. 
—SB 
Stage Makeup 
from: 
Herman Buchman 
Watson-Guptil Publications, Inc. 
1971; 192 pp. 100 color plates 
165 W. 46th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
$15.00 
postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
STAGE 
MAKEUP 
HERMAN BUCHMAN 
FOREWORD GY SIR RALPH RICHARDSON 
The costumes are bags full of holes covering naked bodies. The 
holes are lined with material which suggests torn flesh; through 
the holes one looks directly into a torn body. Heavy wooden 
shoes for the feet; for the heads, anonymous berets. 
This is a 
poetic version of the camp uniform. Through their similarity the 
costumes rob men of their personality, erase the distinctive signs 
which indicate sex, age, and social class. 
The actors become com- 
pletely identical beings. They are nothing but tortured bodies. 
The inmates are the protagonists and, in the name of a higher, un- 
written law, they are their own torturers. 
The merciless conditions 
of the extermination camp constitute the milieu of their lives. 
Their work crushes them with its size and its futility; rhythmical 
signals are given by the guards; the inmates call out in screams. 
But the struggle for the right to vegetate and to love goes on at 
its everyday pace. 
At each command the human wrecks, barely 
alive, stand up erect like well-disciplined soldiers. 
The throbbing 
rhythm of the play underscores the building of the new civilization; 
the work expresses the inmate’s stubborn will to live, which is 
constantly reaffirmed in every one of their actions. 
There is one absolute rule 
Bodily activity comes first, and then 
vocal expression. Most actors work 
in the opposite order. 
First you bang on the table and 
afterwards you shout! 
The vocal process cannot be free with- 
out a well functioning larynx. The 
larynx must first be relaxed, and then 
the chin and jaws. 
If the larynx does not relax and open, 
you must try to find a way to make it 
do so. That is why | asked the third 
pupil to stand on his head. 
If he does 
this, and at the same time speaks, 
shouts or sings, there is a good chance 
that the larynx will open. 
Makeup bases 
The makeup base is a cosmetic that creates the desired skin 
color. 
There are many kinds of bases manufactured in a variety 
of consistencies: 
hard grease sticks, soft grease paint, liquid, 
and pancake. 
In this book, you will be using practically all of 
them. 
Hard grease paints 
These are available in 
a complete range of 
colors. 
These paints come in stick form and are approximately 
5" long and about 1” thick. 
Although this base requires a bit 
more effort to apply, when done properly it has the best and 
longest wearing quality of any of the others. 
Soft grease paints 
These are available in a complete range of 
colors for use as makeup base. 
Manufactured in a toothpaste 
type tube, soft grease paint has a creamy texture and is quickly 
and easily spread. 
Soft grease paint tends to shine excessively 
because of its cream content and, moreover, does not survive 
body heat as well as the hard grease paint. 
Pancakes 
These are also available in 
a complete range of base 
colors. 
This paint is supplied in a compressed form in a flat, 
round container, and is applied to the face with a moistened 
sponge. 
Pancakes dry quickly and have a matte finish and, 
therefore, form a difficult surface for further detailed makeup 
work. 
This base is the least effective for theatrical use because it 
dissolves under heat and perspiration. 
It is much more practical 
for film work because it can be repaired continuously. 
Liquid base colors 
These are available in bottles and used 
primarily as 
a body— 
as opposed to face— 
base. 
Liquid base 
dries quickly, which makes it impractical for use as a facial 
base. 
Fe 
a eos 
Sore TION, Baal 
Sap 
SES 
Well honey, you’ve done a wonderful thing, being there with 
him, | know you have. And me and Doyle’ll and the kids'll be on 
down tomorrow. When do you think 
| figure about two in the afternoon, Marcella. Might as well. 
There wont be that many people to come, and we might as well get 
it done. 
e 
Well honey, listen, said Marcella. What we'll do is leave here real 
early in the morning, and be there about one. Does that sound 
okay? 
e 
That sounds fine, said D.R. 
I'll take care of whatever arrange- 
ments. And Leonard’I! help me. 
e 
Marcella told D.R. she thought he was wonderful. They hung up 
then, and D.R. went to Olney’s Funeral Home to buy a casket. 
e 
That happened fast too. 
Theater 
Communications 
