fortunately and ironically, Lou Kelso, who has some very 
ginative economic proposals, has been offering them for many 
years to the establishment, the dinosaur culture. 
; 
_ Kelso has long ago perceived the obsolescence of prevailing 
economic doctrine that deifies labor as the single component of 
capitalism. He correctly argues that machinery, land, structure 
; 
(that is, capital), produce wealth in the same way that human labor 
does. 
He calls this insight “two factor” economics or “universal 
capitalism”, and since it recognizes the emerging importance of 
_ 
technology, and accepts the diminishing necessity of human labor, 
__ it is an economic theory that is beautifully tailored to the values 
and beliefs of most CATALOG readers and those seeking alternatives 
to dinosaur existence. 
: 
_ 
Kelso’s book struggles manfully with practical solutions, 
including a Second Income Plan, a Capital Diffusion Insurance 
Corporation, and even a proposed Full Production act of 19——. 
These proposals have been laid on presidential candidates, 
congressmen, newspaper publishers, leading economists, and 
nearly all key decision makers of the establishment over and over 
again. 
So either Kelso is a lousy salesman or the dinosaurs are convinced 
their own designs will see them through. 
My advice to Lou is: “Come on, Lou, grow long hair, drop all 
that establishment costumery, immerse yourself in the now 
generation, and start to work with a constituency that wants you 
and needs you. 
If you don’t some bright young radical economist 
certainly will.” 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Richard Raymond] 
Two-Factor Theory: 
The Economics of Reality 
Louis O. Kelso and Patricia Hetter 
1967; 202 pp. 
$1.65 postpaid 
from: 
Vintage Books, Inc. 
201 E. 50th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The theory of unviersal capitalism makes two assumptions about the 
good society. One is that its most important value is freedom. Any 
society seriously caring about freedom must structure its economic 
institutions so as to widely diffuse economic power while keeping it 
in the hands of individual citizens. Nor can freedom in an industrial 
democracy be long maintained unless the economic well-being of 
the majority is reasonably secure. Never in history has universal 
suffrage been built on a sound economic foundation; it is this 
defect, not the ordinary man’s inability to cope with freedom, that 
accounts for the notorious fragility of democratic institutions. 
Secondly, it is assumed that leisure is essential to a civilized definition 
of affluence. To venerate collectively what every intelligent man 
eschews individually, namely unnecessary toil for the goods of sub- 
sistence, makes no human sense. Today, in Western industrial 
society, we see toil advancing totalitarian claims on the whole of 
life at the very moment in history when technology offers liberation. 
Leisure and the liberal-arts tradition are giving way to the totalitarian 
work state which has no place for whole men, only “human resources” 
and servile functionaries. 
As Harold Moulton of the Brookings Institution first pointed out 
in 1935, new capital does not have to be financed exclusively from 
past savings. 
It can just as easily and logically be financed from 
credit, by means that create new capital owners simultaneously 
with new capital assets. Capital produces wealth. Unlike consumer 
goods, it is inherently financeable. With very slight alterations the 
same techniques being used today to finance the acquisition of 
non-income-producing consumer goods can be employed (1) to 
vastly expand the existing economy——to build a Second Economy 
——and, (2) to enable noncapital-owning households to buy equity 
interests in new capital as it is formed, paying for it precisely as the 
capital owner (with rare exceptions) 
has always done——out of the 
income the newly formed capital produces. 
Alternative is indeed the crux of the matter, and here it is that 
youth is vulnerable. For as the elders point out, the posture of 
moral superiority is easy to maintain from the sidelines, particularly 
when one’s livelihood and education are being provided for by 
others. 
But would the young do any better under the same circum- 
stances? 
Will they do any better when their turns come? The 
answer is that youth would not and cannot, given the financial and 
_ economic framework within which the elders are operating. While 
the moral convictions of individuals are important in the long run, it 
is institutions that determine the immediate course of events—— 
particularly the institutions of finance. 
Not an evil conspiracy, but defective financial institutions and the 
lack of alternative institutions have delivered us to the door of the 
total work state. 
This book has attempted to present the alterna- 
tives, founded on the missing logic of an industrial economy. 
| 
Not-money Money 
Your piece on tokens interested me. 
Contrary to what you indicate, 
there is a law making it illegal to “utter coins intended for use as 
money” in the U.S., with a similar provision for paper bills. 
However, these provisions can be avoided by printing disclaimers 
like those appearing on the enclosed certificates (“Not Legal Tender 
For Any Purpose,”’ “Not Intended As Current Money”). 
There’s 
no effective way to prove any other intent. 
These bills were the result of a weekend spent tinkering with play 
money and a Monday morning visit to a local fast-print place. 
The 
denominations are in decagrams of silver (One decagram equals ten 
grams, 454 grams equal one pound, 37 plus gram equals one troy 
ounce). 
The decagram is currently worth 50d to 60g. Although 
silver is subject to considerable short-term price fluctuation, it is 
fairly invulnerable to radical, runaway inflation, and hence is a 
good base for an alternative unit of value to the dollar. 
To validate the certificates (which are sold at retail by Lisa Dawn, 
P.O. Box 90913, Worldway Postal Center, Los Angeles, CA 90009 
at something like ld or 2 d or so per note), the issuer has only to 
ign them and put his address on them. If he is issuing a large 
tity of these notes, and wants to protect himself against 
1 
changes 
in the price 
of silver, he can make an appropriate 
4, 
oaU, 
Commodities Purchasing Service (ATCOPS, 
ies, NY 1 2477). 
This is a “silver bank” 
devaluation of our now worthless dollar. Variations on the theme 
are that an increasingly intense cycle of “regression/inflation”” 
will precede the deluge. It is also universally agreed that the 
best hedge against said deluge is 1. savings account in a Swiss 
bank in Swiss francs (more than 80% gold backed, if the dollar is 
devalued 
you will earn much, much more than the 5-6% they 
pay on savings); 2. silver coins (for cash you can buy coins in $1000 
bags or less from Deane S. Jones, PO Box 8414, Reno, Nevada 
89507), preferably in dimes and quarters (circulated) for which 
you will have to pay a premium over face value because the silver 
content is worth more than the face price. 3. leveraged silver coins, 
if you have a bit more to invest, the Pacific Coin Exchange, 3520 
Long Beach Blvd., Long Beach, California 90807, will loan you 
$1100 on each $1000 bag of coins and charge you 9% interest. This 
means you can leverage your own $1000 up to about $5000 and 
risk only the premium (about $250) and interest. This risk is almost 
nonexistent—except that it is not at all unthinkable that the USFeds 
will make ownership of silver illegal as they did gold in 1933. You'd 
get your money back anyway. It is possible to buy silver, leveraged, 
through a Swiss Bank and Economic Research Counselors, Box 
368, San Diego, Ca., 92112 are specialists in helping you do this. 
If you buy silver coins as a hedge against the deluge (anyone will 
take a good hard silver coin) it will be best to store them in a safe 
deposit company, NOT IN A BANK. Bank Holidays close the whole 
bank, and when silver is called in, goodbye! Or you can dig a hole 
in the ground. The lowest prediction for the price of silver (which 
sold for $1.78 and ounce at the close of the market the end of July) 
is $3.00 by the end of ‘71. Many factors 
make other predictions 
much, much higher. 
The important thing is that WHEN (not IF) the public finally looses 
all confidence in its politicos and their funny paper money, dimes 
will spend. You must have pre 1965 coins or you will get funny 
copper/nickle tokens called money. 
At $1.80 an ounce your coins are worth 34% more than face value; 
at $3.00 an ounce they are worth 121% face value. 
If you have a lot of bread, and want a more easily stored and stable 
piece of wealth you can buy British Sovereigns (pre 1933) from 
Jones. Today they will cost you about $10.50 each or about $44 
an ounce, which is an excellent buy. They could be used as a 
source of land purchase, etc., or to trade for more respectable silver. 
Many might think these little anxieties are the mark of old fashioned 
reactionary nuts; however, 
. the government always degrades money 
2. politicians always lie 
3. people always accept silver and gold which can be 
tested easily for its integrity 
4. nobody has found a politician integrity test yet. 
= 
Silver and gold have become good buys because the USFeds have 
given all theirs away and can no longer depress the market. 
Cheers, 
George von Hilsheimer, himself 
PS. Unless your crystal ball really works stay out of the silver com- 
modity futures market. Only about 1% of contracts are delivered on, 
which means the futures games is a legal way to play craps. 
Gary Filler 
Chattanooga Coin 
910 Market Street 
Chattanooga Tenn. 37401 
is so far the cheapest interest on silver coins bought on loans (you 
pay the difference between face value and market value of the 
silver on dimes and quarters) at 7% 
To reiterate. 
Silver, for lots of reasons, is becoming dearer and 
dearer. 
In the event of atomic catastrophy or a quite probable 
economic debacle in the USA, genuine silver dimes and quarters 
will spend at silver value when paper or cupronickel coins will not 
get you anything but laughs. 
A bag of silver buried on the old homestead ts the nicest security 
blanket. 
Mildly speculative investments in silver coins is about a 85% winner, 
in fact, my own personal attitude— 
measured by what our commune 
does with its surplus and where we have our employees retirement 
banked— 
is that its closer to a 99% winner. 
In short, silver can be stole, but it can’t be changed to clay by 
politicians promises. 
George von Hilsheimer, himself 
Orange City, Florida 
(current assets about 85,000 decagrams of silver (Decas), or 
$40,000 to $50,000, backed by the personal faith and credit of 
the owners, who are worth several hundred thousand to several 
million dollars). 
That is, it takes your dollar deposits, converts 
them into an equivalent number of Decas (on paper), pays 3% 
annual interest in Decas, and, when you want to withdraw your 
money, they convert it back to dollars and pay you. 
Thus you 
earn 3% plus (or minus) any change in the price of silver, and, in 
any case, you needn't worry about any price changes of silver 
Screwing you vis-a-vis any outstanding decagram notes you have. 
This outfit also mints Deca coins, but, by the time you add sales 
tax, shipping, the fact that the coins are sterling (92.5%) silver 
but are priced at the price of 99.9% silver, etc., etc., etc., these 
are of interest mainly as curios. 
ATCOPS is a part of Operation 
Atlantis, a group that is planning to found its own country in the 
Carribean this fall. They put out a four-page newsletter (theoretic- 
ally semimonthly, but often late) at $4.50 for 24 issues. 
They 
also have, for $1.00, a pamphlet describing their premises (The 
Story of Operation Atlantis). 
All from the address above in 
Saugerties. 
Sincerely yours, 
Erwin S. Strauss 
TTA Enterprises 
Santa Barbara, CA. 
The review was widely quoted in other publications, including 
one in England. 
a 
Kelso’s scene is gathering some Movement qualities, includin. 
now a 
Newsletter of the Institute for the Study of Economic 
2027 Massachusetts Ave. N.W. 
Sy 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
Membership $10/ year 
Student membership $6/year 
Below is an article from Vol. 1, No. 1, October 1970 
TRIBUNES ON THE MARCH 
Tribunes are mobilizing to the defense of the people in the Nation’s — 
capital! 
, 
A pets of Kelsonians here calling themselves 
the “Ninety-five 
Percenters” has begun an ambitious social action program designe: 
to achieve the goals of Universal Capitalism as ou tlined in The 
, 
Capitalist Manifesto by Kelso and Adler. Rejecting all forms of con- 
centrated ownership—whether in the form of class capitalism, mixes 
capitalism, or state capitalism—as the inevitable result of defective 
economic systems, the Ninety-five Percenters will appeal to the 
capital-less masses, and to potential allies among the five percent 
who enjoy exclusive access to capital ownership today. 
Starting from a nucleus of a Washington Area Free University class, 
this “new movement” 
has organized into bands of three people called — 
“Tribunes”. With “Economic Power to the People”’ as its rallying 
* 
call, the group will take steps to contruct history’s first democratic 
: 
economic foundation for a free industrial society. It will strive to 
3 
connect corporate economic power directly to every person in society 
through new ownership shares and by updating and revitalizing the 
institution of private property, an institution that has erodedand 
become misunderstood and abused as access to capital ownership was _ 
denied to the vast majority of people. 
3! 
The groups chose the name “Tribunes” 
for its original meaning, 
“defenders of the people”. Through bold yet constructive challenges 
on many fronts, they will expose the failures of the Nation’s 
Rye’ 
decision-makers to achieve economic justice. The Tribunes will pro- 
mote the three Kelsonian principles of economic justice: 
F 
1. Everyone should have equal opportunity to participate in production 
through both labor and ownership of capital. (The input or 
a 
“participation” principle.) 
< 
2. Everyone is entitled to the rewards of his production. (The “‘private 
property” principle of distribution.) 
Pe 
3. No one should produce radically more than he can consume, if this _ 
would deny others the right to participate in production. (The anti-- 
monopoly or “limitation”’ principle.) 
x 
Each of the three members of a Tribune assumes the personal 
nel 
responsibility for forming another Tribune, to which he ts an observer 
for communications purposes. As their numbers increase throughout 
the United States, the Tribunes will be organized along regional lines 
to conform with the Federal Reserve and Congressional districts. Each 
— 
Tribune in the network will develop its own action and educational 
programs, guided by the spirit of the First Amendment and based on 
Pa 
non-violence. 
oy 
Separate and distinct from the Institute for the Study of Economic 
Systems, the Tribunes are political and social-action oriented. Their 
aim is to develop the political base for spreading the philosophy 
- 
and programs of Universal Capitalism. 
The Tribunes will bring together the expertise of individuals from 
varied professions and fields of interest. Regular meetings will effect 
a continuing exchange of information and ideas and result in practical 
planning for effective activism. 
For information about forming your own Tribune, write to: 
Rev. William Gardiner 
All Souls’ Church 
16th and Harvard Streets, NW 
Washington, DC 20009 
My job is to get liquids into Emmit, and then help him get them 
out again. His throat is so messed up, and his breathing, and now, 
— 
since they’ 
ve doped him up, his senses as well, that he can’t even 
handle as much as a spoonful of water at a time. So what I do is 
my finger, hold the straw to his lips, than take away my finger to 
let it run into his mouth and down his throat. About once a minute 
| do that, take the water into the straw, hold it to his mouth, then 
: 
let it out again. It's like feeding some little animal with a nipple. 
|! 
manage less than a glass full an hour, but still it adds up because his 
kidneys continue to function, and Doctor Robinette says that’s the 
key to any chance that Emmit has, which isn’t very much of a 
=a 
chance no matter what we do. But it doesn’t matter. 
| just keep 
Es 
dipping it up and dropping it into his mouth, strawful after strawful, |
and then a little while later here it'll come, it'll be water-time, 
; 
Emmit will yell out water-time! water-time! and Ill tug him to a 
sitting position and help him leak it out, then lay him down again 
and go on dipping in and letting out. 
WW 
How many times. 
No one knew. 
e 
That was one statistic no one kept. 
e 
The thousands, surely. Maybe millions. 
e 
Maybe billions, D.R. thought. Maybe this has been going on for 
years and years. 
If you don’t count the times, how can you know 
~ 
how many? How can you know for sure? They count the stars. 
EY 
The stars 
a 
Money 
Communications 
tPer"E afBe 
