_ | jittered through the January 70 production and then asked 
Gurney Norman to handle March. He did, and with bells on. Guest 
editorship had come to Whole Earth. Joe Bonner left on the 
mystical road, and | was worried, but Hal Hershey more than filled 
his shoes on /ayout. 
dn January Fred built a volleyball court in back of the store. 
| was 
too fucked up to play on it for a while, which grieved me, because 
volleyball instantly became a valuable part of the store routine. We 
played two games after lunch every day. It improved our health, 
got us out in the weather, loosened our tensions, and — honest to 
God — built character. 
Since we were playing on paid-for time, we naturally tried to stretch 
out the two games, so each day the players spontaneously arranged 
themselves into always different but equal teams. Lunch and volley- 
ball kept us well acquainted. 
That, and the morning mail-opening 
scene. We had some newcomers — Mary Jo Morra, Soni Stoye the 
good cook, Austin Jenkins of good cheer. 
On the Spring CATALOG we went up to 144 pages and lowered the 
price further to $3. (Later a friend at Stanford Research Institute 
“said he made the calculations one afternoon and figured out we 
would make the most money with a $4 price tag. Or $3.95, as they 
say.) A new face on Spring production was Steamboat, who seldom 
spoke but could draw volumes. 
(Tuesday's Child on p. 23 is his. 
So are the dragons.) 
In July Lois and | left to see the world and Expo and the Bakers in 
Japan. My old (and favorite) employer Gordon Ashby took on the 
July Supplement and totally changed our layout ways. 
JD, Nebraska’s Marlon Brando, kept a strong crew busy at the Store 
and started gathering material for the Fall 70 CATALOG he was 
going to edit. 
In September 70 Gurney came back from a summer in Kentucky 
with Wendell Berry and put out what came to be known as the 
Cracker issue of the Supplement. 
The BD-4 airplane kit we’d 
ordered started to arrive, and Fred and /ater Troll and Doug and 
Bob sawed and filed and puzzled and rivetedat it in the back room. 
Don Gerrard had left Book People and among his other projects 
was trying to find a big distributor for the LAST CATALOG. 
We 
wanted a contract by Christmas. Nobody in New York seemed 
very interested. 
There were strong family feelings in the Store by now and a desire 
to do something else together. A restiveness. When the teacher's 
lab at Ortega finally failed and quit, JD and | pressed to get itasa 
home for most of the Truck Store staff,a commune. 
|dealism 
PORTOLA 
INSTITUTE 
INC 
1115 MERRILL ST. 
MENLO PARK, 
CALIFORNIA 
323-5155 
Portola Institute was established in 1966 as a non-profit 
corporation to encourage, organize, and conduct innovative educa- 
tional projects. The Institute relies for support on private founda- 
tions and public agencies, to whom specific project proposals are 
submitted. 
Because Portola Institute is a private organization with no need to 
produce profits or guarantee “success”, it can experiment with new 
and unusual educational projects that would be difficult to admin- 
ister within more structured organizations. 
For this reason the staff 
and facilities of the Institute are deliberately kept small and flexible. 
Within its framework a wide variety of projects dealing with 
innovative education can be created as people with ideas are able to 
interest people with funds. New projects are always being consid- 
ered, both within the existing divisions and programs, and within as 
yet unexplored realms of the learning experience. 
Whole Earth Truck Store and Catalog is one division of Portola 
Institute. Other current activities include: 
Big Rock Candy Mountain 
Media Access Center 
Music Resources Program 
Kids Teaching Kids 
Learning in the World 
Wilderness Education 
filled the air. It was never a very successful commune; it was a 
plenty educational one. 
As Fall production went on up the hill in the garage there were new 
laborers in the store. Herald Hoyt, Dudley DeZonia, Francine Slate, 
Terry Gunesch, Diane Erickson. People’s children were in the store 
more often now. Marilyn’s kids, Francine’s, Diane’s, Pam’s. | was 
buried in the back office starting the long haul toward the LAST 
CATALOG. 
At Christmas there were memorable parties. 
In January 71 some of us safaried to a remote unnamed desert hot 
springs for an adventurous Supplement production. 
Don Gerrard had gotten good offers from Dutton and Random 
House for distribution of the LAST CATALOG. We decided to go 
with Random. 
! asked Richard Brautigan, Ken Kesey, and Paul Krassner if any of 
them would like to edit the March Supplement. Brautigan said he 
was already involved in a quaint project, writing a novel. Kesey 
said he would edit if Krassner would, and new levels of offense and 
too/dom were /eveled at our readers. 
The LAST CATALOG you know about. 
A lot of other stuff happened too, ask anybody who was there. Ask 
Bernie Sproch to show you his Whole Earth stamp collection. 
It’s 
quite a collection. 
Fame 
//we’ve been subject to some, and you're partially responsible, so | 
thought you ought to know a little about it. Everything bad you've 
heard about fame is quite true. 
/t can throw a personality into 
positive feedback, where audience demands drive his character past 
caricature and off the deep end. 
Its over-rewards can jade a palate 
permanently. 
It wakes you up in the middle of the night with phone 
calls from whining strangers. 
Worst of all is the classic bind of the successful do-gooder. 
If you 
do good well, your opportunities to do more increase, as your 
stamina to do any decreases. 
You should relax, yes you should, 
relax, with guilt yammering in your ear. FUCK EM ALL! is no 
answer either. 
Whole Earth Truck Store 
The Whole Earth Truck Store is alive and quite well in 
Menlo Park. New ventures under way. Old CATALOGS 
and Supplements available. Come by. 
And we Still Mail Order. 
Hours: Monday—Saturday, 10 am - 6 pm 
558 Santa Cruz Avenue, Menlo Park, CA 94025 
Phone: (415) 323-0313 
WHOLE 
EARTH 
TRUCK 
STORE 
S) fanford University 
Some think they‘re strong, some think they’re smart, 
Like butterflies they’re pulled apart. 
America can break your heart. 
You don’t know all, sir, you don’t know all. 
W. H. Auden 
Krassner is right to note that celebrityhood is mainly a matter of 
convenience for people. 
There’s no reason to take it personally. 
/ will say a couple of good words for fame. It accelerates access if 
you want access. 
You can hang around with famous people, which 
is fun sometimes. 
Your credit is good with strangers, it’s never 
hard to meet people. 
It’s usually easy to find work, make some 
money. 
If you’ve withstood fame there’s some things you're strong 
at that you might not be otherwise. 
The main problem with fame, or any kind of success, is the insula- 
tion it packs around you. 
You don’t get all those little course- 
correcting signals from the universe. 
In part they’re drowned out by 
all the people telling you what they think and what you ought to 
think.. Also the signals just can’t prick you; when a red danger light 
goes on, you can simply bribe the machine until the light goes off, 
and the danger grows unheeded. 
The voices that you need to hear, whisper, slowly and infrequently. 
The only way to hear them is listen. 
Gaze at something until it’s 
nothing. And then at nothing until it’s something. 
There’s a difference between intention driving us on, and mystery 
pulling us on. Mystery will always educate and correct. 
Intention 
can go off the end of its own limb. 
/f it’s all right with you, I’m going back to the tree. 
We get asked 
a lot, “What's in the future for you folks,” as if we knew. 
Well, 
let’s see. 
We'll clean up the garage and sell the production equip- 
ment, maybe to Kesey who wants to start a travelling magazine 
called Spit in the Ocean. 
Us out-of-work production people will 
draw our two weeks severance pay. 
We'll keep the Truck Store 
going in Menlo Park, and maybe try some new things with it in 
relation to Portola Institute. 
We'll have our DEMISE party that 
Scott Beach has set up at the Exploratorium in San Francisco. 
We'll do some travelling. 
We'll take a ride on Patchen’s coda: 
Pause. 
And begin again. 
—SB 
May 31, 1971 
Co, 
, 
(ais ntl Ey 
ong 
am 
a 1 
And he left the store and the people there and went around to 
Roxie’s house to place a collect call to the Flash in California. 
“Yal-low?”’ 
“Flash, this is D.R.” 
“Stop right there,” said the Flash. 
““Before you say another 
word, | want you to tell me a phone number where | can call you. 
| would of called you days ago...” 
“Listen, man, have you heard from Estelle yet?” 
“Tell me your phone number and I'll answer that question.” 
D.R. told the Flash Leonard’s phone number. There was a little 
silence while he wrote it down. 
“That's better,”” said the Flash. ‘People might as well be lost in 
outer space without a phone number. 
Estelle’s in San Francisco.” 
“She's where?” 
“She's with these friends of Angel's in the mountains, south of 
San Francisco. Down toward Santa Cruz.” 
“What the hell’s she doing in San Francisco?” 
“What are you doing in Kentucky?” asked the Flash. “What am 
| doing in Anaheim? 
It shifts, friend. 
It shifts and moves around. 
You should know.” 
“But San Francisco... 
“She’s not in San Francisco,” said the Flash. ‘’She’s south of 
thera... 
“Did Angel tell you that?” D.R. asked. “When did you talk to 
Angel?” 
“Yesterday, the day before yesterday, and about a week ago. 
| 
would of called you if I’d had your number. Always have a 
telephone number, D.R. 
It facilitates communication.” 
“So go on with it. What did Angel say?” 
“She said Estelle had split. She said Estelle stayed with them 
two weeks, and day before yesterday took off, hitch-hiking south. 
Angel told her to stop off and stay a few days with these friends of 
hers who live in this dome in the mountains. 
Estelle said she'd 
probably do that, and if she did, then we can find her.” 
“What about my letter?” 
“It got there the day Estelle left. Angel read it, and that’s why 
she called me.”” 
“I’m sorry she’s hitch-hiking,” said D.R. 
“Angel said that was what she wanted to do. Besides that, she 
was broke.” 
“Oh shit. What else did she say? Did she say how she was, how 
she felt?’ 
“She's kind of down, | think. 
I’m not supposed to tell you that, 
so don’t tell Angel | told you. She’s already convinced you're a rat. 
| don’t want her to think I'm one too.” 
“Jesus. 
Did she say what was wrong? Did she say...” 
“No. But listen; don’t sweat it. The Anaheim Flash is swinging 
into action. 
If my little scheme works out, you'll be talking to 
Estelle this afternoon.” 
“You going to call her? Can I call her?” 
“I'm going to set it up. There's no phone in this dome she’s 
supposed to be visiting. But | know a guy up there, in Menlo Park, and 
he'll fetch her to a phone if | ask him to. Then you guys can hate 
each other voice to voice, or groove on each other, or whatever 
weird thing it is you all are trying to get on. What the hell is going 
on, if | may ask?” 
——y 
D.R. grinned into the telephone. 
“I’ve started a new corpora- 
tion,” he said. 
(continued) 
441 
