Arcology 
| get it right [and getting it at all is something: it takes 
sither lots of work or none at all] Soleri sees the next step 
n evolution as man’s job. He sees that step manifested in 
an organism and that organism is the city. Soleri says that 
the first part of his book is the most important. But on 
seeing the second part it’s very difficult to muster much 
ime for the first part. It pays, though, nicely. Soleri 
efers to Teilhard de Chardin in approaching the under- 
standing of man as a cosmic problem by ascending from 
ysics, chemistry, biology and geology. Western man 
nust rise from his technology and one (/ think) way is 
being aware (of it) but ignoring it at the same time. 
e manifestation of a process like this is, | think, a series 
of drawings like that of the second part of the book. These 
drawings are like doorways, they’re of fantastic cities, 
vholly improbably but obviously, cosmically, possible. 
fact, they are made real just by their presence in one 
place (the book) and by the interrelatedness of one project 
o the next, page to page, with seminal sketches appearing 
n the corners here and there. What’s most fascinating is 
he next obvious steps: the Cosanti buildings in Arizona 
d Arcosanti, about to begin. He’s not starting all at 
ince, big money style but the way cities have always 
started: little by little. Like Nieuw Amsterdam on the 
tip of Manhattan Island or whatever city began at whatever 
ver crossing or natural harbor, Soleri is beginning at a 
rossing of Gosmic consciousness. 
[Reviewed by Ron Williams] 
sketchbooks of Paolo Soleri 
If you’re into Soleri very much you'll want to get into his 
head. His notebooks will do it for you. The man dreams 
and schemes cloudbursts of passionate structure. 
| 
—SB 
Sketchbooks of Paolo Soleri 
1971; 418 pp. 
$ 9.95 postpaid 
from: 
fassachusetts Institute of Technology 
Publications Office 
7 Massachusetts Ave. 
ambridge, Mass. 02139 
sf WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
HE PORCH IS NOW OPEN ON INFINITY, 
NO MORE ON THE BUSY-BODIES OF 
MORE OR LESS TAILORED DIMENSION, 
IHICH CLOSENESS & NEED-SENTIMENTS 
E INALIENABLE BUT ONLY PART OF 
CH INFINITY 
NE COULD SUGGEST THAT AS AN OPENING 
[HE DOOR ON THE HOUSE OF WORSHIP 
INE EXPECTS & FIND A PLACE OF 
OMEHOW RARE PARAMETRES TO WHICH 
|FE LENDS MORE OF AN ABSTRACTION 
AN ANY PARTICULAR: SO THE TOTAL 
INE SIDE OF THE DOME “WINDOW” OPENS ON 
THE INFINITUM HOUSE OF WORSHIP WHICH 
ATHARTIC MOMENTUM IS IN REASON OF LIGHT 
SEASON—HOURS—ATMOSPHERE—WEATHER 
The Climate Near the Ground 
[his appears to be the definitive text on microclimatology: 
the climatic conditions within 6 feet or so of the earth’s 
surface. The climate in this narrow stratum differs 
ignificantly from the overall climate, and the book analyzes, 
some detail, the relation of soil, water, vegetation, 
fopography, man and animals to the microclimate. 
——Lloyd Kahn 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
BY RUDOLF 
. 
CEIGER 
The Climate Near the Ground 
oT 
eae 
tudolf Geiger 
CLIMATE 
1966; 611 pp. 
NEAR THE 
>11.50 postpaid 
GROUND 
rd 
University Press 
9 Garden Street 
ambridge, Mass. 02138 
Leena 
+ 
ti 
ae 
| 
? 
waaay 
2 
AUTOMATEG NousTRics Mam 
Qk 
Arcology 
Arcology: The City in the Image of Man 
Paolo Soleri 
1969: 121 pp. 
$25.00 postpaid 
or 
The M. |. T. Press 
50 Ames Street, Room 765 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 
from: 
The Cosanti Foundation 
6433 Doubletree Ranch Road 
Scottsdale, Arizona 85253 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
vitTt? 
W777 
WAEIGHTLEX, 
ural 
i 
Niet: 
\ 
& SPACE & SPACES 
The risk of bringing about a deterioration of climate by human 
intervention depends on the type of climate, and is greatest where 
plant life is fighting for its existence because of a shortage of water 
or heat. 
It is possible for very limited intervention into the water 
balance to produce far-reaching results in the bordering regions 
of arid zones. Great “‘regeneration areas’’ have been laid out 
around the town of Broken Hill in Australia, the great mining 
center for silver, lead, and zinc, situated in the middle of arid 
desert land. Wise foresight indicating that the original sparse 
vegetation in the area would have to be removed by the inhabi- 
tants, a comparatively luxuriant type of vegetation was grown in 
surrounding fenced-in and irrigated areas, improving the climate 
of the town, providing recreation spaces, and offering protection 
against dust storms in summer. 
Irrigation has a double purpose: 
to further the optimum growth 
of plants by giving them the supplies of water they need, and to 
increase air humidity during the hottest hours of the day in a 
dry period; this has the effect of reducing, as far as possible, the 
Passive transpiration of the plant, which is its method of protec- 
ting itself against high temperatures, but which makes unnecessary 
demands on energy. The first of these aims is achieved by watering 
at night, the second by watering during the day with as fine a spray 
as possible. The period of watering, its duration, the quantity and 
temperature of the water must all be adjusted to suit the type and 
age of the fruit to be protected, and the weather at the time. 
Irrigation techniques must therefore go hand in hand with micro- 
climatology. 
“To introduce living and working into the masonry of the dam means 
to transform a monolithic, noncellular system into one that is 
articulated and cellular. 
For equal mass the cellular system, not 
randomly given but structurally conceived, is stronger because it 
allows selectivity of orientation and dimensionality. 
lf one then considers the 1:7 ratio of redundance in the safety 
coefficient in the dams built in the United States, one can see the 
wealth of schemes that can effectively and magnificently trans- 
form the blind mass into a singing environment. 
BESS 
S RBBB 
RRRSRTZ BREESE 
ees: 
few people have gotten to see paolo solari’s exhibit of his work at 
the whitney museum in new york, and not too many can put out 
$26 to buy his book (which ts well worth it.)....but for $1 you 
* 
can purchase his poster which comes out each fall solari runs a 
summer school program for architecture students. 
each year he 
puts out a poster in the “‘siltpile series” advertising his school 
and generally telling what they’re into. 
well anyway, it’s a neat 
poster every year and he’s now up to “siltpile no. 11”. 
send $1 to: 
coasanti foundation 
6433 east doubletree road 
scottsdale, arizona 85253 
jon zimmerman 
norfolk, virginia 
4 tihe 
LS 
S 
iJ 
LOVE 
“Amen.” 
The Greek bowed to the west and he bowed to the east, 
and came up filled with love for everything in the universe. 
When he saw D.R. leaning against the picnic table with what he 
took to be a forlorn look on his face he felt apologetic for coming 
on to him so hard during the ceremony. 
To make amends he 
went over and hugged him. 
"| love you, man,” said the Greek. 
“I love you, and you and 
you too, you're all just lovely, and | love you. 
| love the bus, 
| love those people down there at the other table, | love that 
big truck, and its driver, and the drivers of all those cars going 
by. 
| love the desert, | love the sky, | love the mountains in 
the distance, the oceans beyond the mountains, and all who dwell 
in the lands beyond the oceans. | love all sentient beings 
everywhere, regardless of their race, color, creed, place of national 
origin, or species. 
“Now perhaps you wonder how it is that a mere mortal 
such as | have become capable of such boundless love for every- 
thing in all creation. 
| mean, how is it, do you suppose, that 
a single individual is able to sustain a feeling of love for absolutely 
everything, twenty-four hours a day, every day, all his life? The 
answer, my friends, is simple. 
You all of course know what the 
ego is. How it is first developed out of the formless void that 
is the childhood psyche, and then, through strength of the adult 
will, through ceaseless practice of the yogic disciplines, it is at 
last obliterated so that that which was torn asunder by the 
trauma of leaving the mother’s womb has been reconciled and 
made whole again, where all is one and one is all, where the 
twain not only meet but embrace and join together in eternal 
union of individual consciousness with the cosmic life force. 
Well, love is bound up in the workings of the ego in a funda- 
mental and inextricable way. 
A lot of people are confused by 
this point, because they are confused by the apparent contra- 
diction built into the notion of coming to consciousness by 
abandoning the quest for consciousness. 
The great yogis and 
mystics and teachers of The Way have all enjoined us as disciples 
to abandon self-consciousness in striving for total awareness, and 
yet, as a means of gaining the strength to bring about that 
abandonment, we are simultaneously enjoyed to become more 
self-aware. 
How then do we practice self-forgetfulness at the 
same time we are asked to cultivate self-awareness? 
A lot of 
seekers have been defeated by that contradiction, and this is 
tragic because the way out is actually so simple and easy to 
see you really feel embarrassed when it finally dawns upon you. 
The answers to all the great questions are really very simple, 
just as the simple way of life is the proper path enroute to the 
Greatest Question. 
Simplify! 
Simplify! 
Simplify! 
cried Thoreau, 
and he was right. 
(cantinued) 
Soleri 
“hen 
Land Use 
) 
ba; 
