The whole system of human life has been appreciated only 
in its ascendant aspects lately. We have entire industries— 
medicine, warfare— devoted to death-prevention, and a 
kind of pathological secrecy has surrounded the event of 
dying. 
Dick Alpert, several years.ago, proposed a Center for Birth 
and Dying. A place where, if you were going to die or 
Do-It-Yourself Burial for $50 
Human bodies are amorganic part of The WHOLE EARTH and at 
death must return to nourish the ongoing stream of life. Most of 
the billion dollars annually which Americans pay to the under- 
taking industry to dispose of corpses is sheer waste, both of money 
and of ever decreasing living space for posterity. 
Isn't there some way,” | was asked by a widow,”’ that two or three 
of us could dispose legally of the corpse fora few dollars? My 
husband's death left us badly in debt but | had to go further in 
debt to pay a funeral director because | didn’t know what else 
| could do.” 
Contingency Planning is the essence of a Do-It-Y ourself Funeral. 
What we need is not so much to escape the clutches of a profit- 
motivated business but to remove our own vulnerability by pre- 
Paring to do’ourselves what needs to be:done. 
Actually in usual 
cases it is quite easy. Nothing very ‘professional’ is required that 
any poor man or woman cannot do themselves. 
lf you are going:to act “in place of’ a funeral director you have 
to get prepared well ahead and take charge immediately. There is 
not time to learn the ropes after death occurs. One cannot just 
copy the writer's experience, but | can give you aclose idea of 
what to expect. Then decide if you want to take the trouble or 
just pay a professional to do the work for you. 
The when and where and who of death is not always very predic- 
table. 
It is best to have.a group plan for one’s family, church, 
Union or'commune. 
A burial committee of 3:persons, any’one 
Of whom can take charge, can.be specified in one’s last instructions, 
jUst So no one is paid. 
Take this example (in California): 
The grandfather entered keenly into the project to set his whole 
family an example. When he died here is how we carried out his 
Wishes: 
1) We got outhis instructions which were left handy to get at. 
The other grown members of the family had each completed 
their own set of instructions——or specified that the same ones 
be followed. Three of us, ason; grandson and uncle were named, 
any one of whom»were authorized to act as his ‘’funeral'director.” 
2) We went immediately to our County Health Department office 
of Vital Statistics and obtained a Certificate of Death form, show- 
iNg Our authorization to do so. We had already in advance ‘obtained 
a copy of the-form to familiarize ourselves with the information 
required, We filled in the details and 
3) Took it to the medical doctor who verified the facts of death to 
complete the technical questions. 
In cases requiring a coroner's 
action the latter would do that. 
4) Then the ‘‘person acting in place of” a funeral director completed 
the Death Certificateand returned it to the Registrar of Vital Stat- 
istics to become a part of the state’s permanent public records. 
We applied for a certified copy of that Death Certificate and paid 
the $2 fee. For another $1 we obtained a ‘Permit for Disposition 
of Human Remains."’ These are needed to satisfy a hospital, pos- 
sible police inquiry.and to:assure the receiver that he is authorized 
to cremate. 
wanted to die, you go and do it in style, perhaps even grace. 
There would be whatever religious, pharmaceutical, medical 
aid you wanted. 
(If LSD has been proven to ease the de- 
parture of terminal cancer patients, why 
is it not in general 
use? What else enhances the experience of death?) 
The 
Center is also a place for natural childbirth, family supported, 
so that arrival and departure in this world are not estranged. 
—SB 
6) We went home and got out the six foot box which we had made 
long before from odd bits of plywood for $5. The cheapest wooden 
casket sold for $85 but why waste‘it? Some places do not even 
require a box for cremation. 
7) After checking the crematory about delivery we took our box of 
remains there by pickup truck and handed over a check for $40, 
the local fee which elsewhere varies. We presented the two certifi- 
cates from the County Health office. and signed the authorization 
to cremate. 
The crux of disposal is the requirement on all these forms that one 
must specify a legal (i.e. cemetery or columbarium) place of final 
interment by name and address. 
|n practice this means another 
$150 or more for a plot or niche. Even strewing ashes at sea is made 
ridiculously complicated and costly——to discourage it. The lobby 
of the industry in this state has so far defeated all attempts at 
funeral reform which would permit relatives to keep the ashes at 
home or to strew them in the family garden or at a public (outside 
city limits) park or seashore. You may find that where you live it 
is perfectly legal to do this. 
8) However, in this case Grandpa ordered his ‘funeral directors’’ 
verbally.to finish hiswishes as follows: 
a) 
fill in the name of a cemetery back in his home 
town to satisfy the statistical requirement. 
b) take personal custody of the ashes for delivery 
ina little box we made. 
c) then later scatter the ashes on the Sierra as he had 
privately ordered. 
Most people would rather ‘‘pay the piper,”’ even though they feel 
that final regulation is ridiculous and exploitative——rather than 
be forced to subterfuge. However, these last wishes were com- 
plied with discreetly and privately.and no questions have arisen 
in this or other similar cases. 
To complete this example | must report that twe Sundays later 
friends and relatives gathered for a jolly memorial feast, to which 
all contributed, in honor of our'departed. 
The full amount payable 
in ‘death benefits,"’ $1000, the.deceased left in a scholarship 
savings.account for a couple of his grandchildren. 
For your further study get through WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Ernest Morgan’s ‘Manual of Simple Burial,”” an excellent guide 
to lots of other business that needs attending to at the time of a 
death. 
Also join with others who are already organized to handle 
death simply and with dignity. The Continental Association of 
Funeral and Memorial Societies at 59 East Van Buren Street, 
Chicago, Illinois 60605 can direct you to one of their non-profit 
member societies near you, to which millions of families and indi- 
viduals belong. Their voluntary elected officers can help you, as 
they did us, to make your own family death contingency plans. 
The most popular procedure up to now seems to be an arrangement 
with local funeral directors who co-operate with a Memorial Sor. ety 
in providing minimal disposal service $150 and up plus another “\150 
or so for a cemetery plot or columbarium niche. Howcver, in the 
example given total burial costs were $48. 
Anton Nelson 
All things are in process, rising 
and returning. Plants come to 
blossom but only to return to the 
root. Returning to the root is 
like seeking tranquility. Seeking 
tranquility is like moving toward 
destiny. To move toward 
destiny is like eternity. To know 
eternity is enlightenment, and 
not to recognise eternity brings 
disorder and evil Knowing 
eternity makes one compre- 
hensive; comprehension brings 
nobility; nobility is like heaven. 
The heavenly is like Tao. 
Tao 
is the Eternal. The decay of the 
body is not to be feared. 
Lao-tse 
(Peruvian Dance Song 
(Ayacucho) 
Wake up, woman, 
Rise up, woman, 
In the middle of the street 
A dog howls. 
May the death arrive, 
May the dance arrive, 
Comes the dance 
You must dance, 
Comes the death 
You can’t help it! 
Ah! what a chill, 
Ah! what awind... 
Technicians of the Sacred 
The death of Osceola, the Seminole 
January 30, 1838 
About half 
an hour before he died, he seemed to be sensible that he 
was dying; and although he could not speak, he signified by signs 
that he wished me to send for the chiefs and for the officers of the 
post, whom I called in. He made signs to his wives (of whom he had 
two, and also two fine little children by his side), to go and bring 
his full dress, which he wore in time of war; which having been brought 
in, he rose up in his bed, which was on the floor, and put on his 
shirt, his leggings and moccasins— girded on his war-belt, his bullet- 
pouch, and powder-horn, and laid his knife by the side of him on 
the floor. He then called for his red paint, and his looking-glass, 
which was held before him, when he deliberately painted on half of 
his face, his neck and his throat— 
his wrists— 
the backs of hands, 
and the handle of his knife, red with vermillion; a custom practised 
when the irrevocable oath of war and destruction is taken. His 
knife he then placed in its sheath, under his belt; and he carefully 
arranged his turban on his head, and his three ostrich plumes that 
he was in the habit of wearing init. Being thus prepared in full 
dress, he lay down a few minutes to recover strength sufficient, 
when he rose up as before, and with most benignant and pleasing 
smiles, extended his hand to me and to all of the officers and 
chiefs that were around him; and shook hands with us all in dead 
silence; and also with his wives and his little children; he made a 
signal for them to lower him down upon his bed, which was done, 
and he then slowly drew from his war-belt, his scalping-knife, which 
he firmly grasped in his right hand, laying it across the other, on 
his breast, and in a moment smiled away his last breath, without a 
struggle or a groan. 
Catlin, The North American Indians, 
Vo. Il, p. 251n. 
The Indian in America’s Past, 
Jack D. Forbes, $1.95 from Prentice- 
Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 07632 
From Newsweek 
April 6, 1970 
“The city person usually asks me to spare no expense in 
order to keep a dying relative alive,” observes Dr. Robert 
Leachman, director of cardiology at St. Luke’s Hospital in 
Houston. “But the rural person who has lived his life in 
close contact with the cycle of nature accepts death more 
readily as a fact of life.”’. .. at one Boston hospital,... 
Kastenbaum found that the terminally ill had dubbed their 
wing “Death Valléy.”’ the dying were kept alive with drugs 
till their machine ran out. In time, however, 
the psycholo- 
gist was able to cut the use of drugs by introducing a simple 
humor touch: once a day, the residents of Death Valley 
were allowed to throw an old-fashioned beer party. 
on 
VXI + ye : 
<> 
His father would say, “Right here now David's where old 
Boone got his first look at hisnew country. Stopped right over 
there by that mailbox, could see as far as he could see.” He would 
grin then, and wait for David to respond. He made the joke two 
times every weekend, coming and going, but somehow it was always 
funny. David would begin to anticipate it miles before his father 
would say it, like a story he knew:but never got tired of hearing. 
His father would say, “Yes sir, old Boone leaned his gun against 
that very mailbox yonder, and looked all around.” 
(continued) 
> 
Death 
Community 
