A 
O 
e em. 
‘ 
Y 
+. 
i 
avichords have which draw me to them. 
probably know, an early keyboard instrument, very 
: 
When played, they are so quiet as to be drowned 
ple talking. They can’t be played with another instrument, 
t 00 quiet, and I seriously doubt that they could be played 
factorily in a city, due to traffic noise. But (the delicious 
the most sensitive of all keyboard instruments. You can 
a@volume range down to nothing, and you can add 
note by pressing your finger gently up.and down on the 
are sensitive, you can feel the vibrations of the string 
ger 
as you hold the key down. Now here’s the thing. 
everything 
you see on TV, or read in magazines, billboards, 
is designed to be seen or read by someone who is not too 
d. Commercials must catch the guy just heading into the 
nm, must reach out and grab the listener. I guess one of the big 
at turns me on about clavichords is that they make no 
- whatsoever to do this. You must come to them, and you 
ome on their terms, that is absolute silence. As you play, or 
o one, your level of hearing grows more acute. What sounded 
faint tinkling when you started becomes full, almost loud 
>. Then, if someone coughs, it sounds like dynamite. I like the 
f small sounds being appreciated, and of great sensitivity, which 
i must seek out, which is not rammed down your throat. If you 
h a clavichord on its own terms, it has a tremendous amount 
for something of more use to you. In this whole bag of reviving 
ments, there are a number of 
sources of information. 
ree Centuries of Harpsichord Making” by Frank Hubbard, 
vard University Press, 79 Garden Street, Cambridge, 02138, 
5, is simply a fantastic book. It describes the technical 
sses used to make harpsichords (he doesn’t deal with clavichords 
and it is so thoroughly researched it makes your head spin. He 
nds quite a bit of time with general processes of the time 
500 to 1800) such as how lumber was cut and sold, what sizes of 
rds 
could be bought, how common pins were made (you wouldn’t 
ve it!) the tools used, etc. Another great book is “The Modern 
psichord” by Wolfgang Zuckermann, October House, 55 W.13th St. 
+, 10011, $15.00. This deals with instruments being made today. 
has good sections on old instruments and practices, then the 
in body of the book is a section listing modern makers, with 
lresses, photographs, cockeyed opinions, very good opinions, 
morous anecdotes etc. 
+ 
el 
fakers of modern instruments are all in that book, but you might 
terested in some of the more interesting among them, mostly 
se who make kits. 
; ‘Witcher, Ancient Instruments, 17715 La Rosa Lane, Fountain Valley, 
ifornia, 92708. This firm is a gas (run by 2 ex-underwater engineers) 
they make harpsichords, virginals, clavichords, Gigues, Liri da 
accio, Citterns, Hurdy Gurdies, Epinettes des Vosges, Baroque 
lutes, Baroque Oboes, Baroque Oboes d’Amour, Cometti, mute 
ymetti, Rackets, Curtals, and the famed Baroque Bassoon. Honest. 
ir 
dulcimers go for around $30 and $45. They also make a hurdy 
dy kit $75 and a table model clavichord kit ($95 or $125). Neat 
S. 
Witt, Route 3, Three Rivers, Michigan, 49093. He makes a very 
rious line of harpsichords and clavichords (including fretted clavi- 
ords—the only man I’ve heard of doing that, and in this crowded 
Id if you're the only man doing anything, it’s something). He has 
a good line of clavichords from $505 to $1025, and he says he 
pplies them partially made (all the tricky parts done) for about 2/3 
at price. Ditto his harpsichords, at about half price. They look 
ery good. 
‘bert Burton, 917 O Street, P.O. Box 222, Lincoln, Neb., 68508, 
makes a really neat looking harpsichord kit, $590 complete with 
ery thing but liquid finishing materials. He says you can make it 
60 to 80 hours (not including finishing) using no special tools, and 
clamps. It is a big, versatile, well designed instrument. He also 
Says 
he ships kits the same day the order is received. 
_ Zuckermann Harpsichords, 115 Christopher St., N.Y., 10014 is an 
ess I’m sure you know. His hardsichord kit is $150, produces a 
ather ugly, squat, unversatile instrument with amazingly loud tone. 
He makes a clavichord kit for $100, but all you get is a keyboard, 
ce of plywood for soundboard, some wire and other odd bits 
d pieces. 
‘rank Hubbard, 185 A Wvman St., Waltham, Mass., 02154. 
‘antastic maker of instruments (all harpsichords). He makes a kit 
1700 for one keyboard, $900 for two) which is difficult and exacting 
d only to be undertaken by experienced woodworkers, but which 
akes 
an instrument about. as good as any you can buy (including the 
}4000 ones!) Top of the line stuff, for serious people only. 
Post Ross, 791 Tremont St., Room 515, Boston, 02118, 
though mostly a serious maker of fine harpsichords, has a virginal 
(snicker snicker) for about $560. Virginals are rectangular 
_harpsichords, with a rounder, “tubbier”’, sometimes louder tone than 
_ 
harpsichords. They don’t take up much room ina 
house. His kit 
_ 
produces a historically accurate 18th century Italian instrument. 
_S.R. Williams, £229 Olancha Dr., Los Angeles, 90065, makes kits, for 
small harpsichord, a triangular spinet, and one or two other 
things, but I’ve lost the brochure. They looked good, though, not too 
expensive. 
ore stuff. H.L. Wild, 510 East 11 St., N.Y., 10009, is a fantastic 
ource for guitar supplies. He has all the woods (Deluxe German 
rerman Silver spruce etc.) necks, rosettes, fret wire, tools, books, 
very 
thing, Really great. Banjo parts too! 
re 
 Willia 
_ 
I don’t know if you want all this junk or not, but I 
suspect that the 
_ kind of people who want to stop killing, stop eating plastic food, stop 
ilding plastic relationships, get off the ladder of success, who want 
smell trees, and hear the little notses in the world, would also like 
ear and make music, and make their own instruments. If 
thing else, out in the boondocks of Kentucky there is a clavichord 
freak (who would have thought...) 
Harold R. Langland 
Murray, Kentucky 
Music 
Communications 
instrument 
design, 
tt 
construction. Hey Baer, coul 
stan 
we drive one with solar. 
The Art of Organ-Building 
George Ashdown Audsley 
1905, 1965; 1358 pp.; 2 vols. 
$20.00 postpaid 
from: 
Dover Publications, Inc. 
180 Varick Street 
New York, N. Y. 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
TRUMPET. Ger., TROMPETE. Fr., TROMPETTE.— 
This 
is probably, taken generally, the most important reed stop 
in the Organ, adding richness and dignity to every 
combination of stops into which it enters. 
So important 
and useful is a good TRUMPET, 8 FT., that no Organ of 
any pretension is built without one. 
The proper tone of 
the TRUMPET is imitative of that of the orchestral 
instrument; and there is almost unlimited scope for the 
skill of the reed voicer in the production of this stop. 
The tubes of the TRUMPET are of metal and of inverted 
conical form and normal speaking lengths. 
Burton Harpsichord 
oJ 
Three Centuries of Harpsichord Making 
Have you ever heard a.harpsichord? 
It’ll make a- 
gentleperson out of you. 
For some reason | have 
this conviction that harpsichord-makers aren’t 
afraid of dying. 
This book revels in the 16th, 
17th, and 18th century. 
The workmanship and 
music thereof. 
—SB 
Three Centuries of Harpsichord Making 
Frank Hubbard 
1965; 420 pp. 
$12.95 postpaid from: 
Harvard University Press 
79 Garden St. 
Cambridge, Mass. 02138 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
In this book my purpose has been to record the traditions of 
harpsichord making as they might have been transmitted to young 
apprentices in any one of the several countries in which the craft 
flourished. 
| have intended to give enough information to make 
it possible for builders of harpsichords to base their work on 
certain knowledge of the designs and methods of earlier makers; 
to guide players of the harpsichord in their search for appropriate 
instruments, dispositions, and registrations in re-creating the music 
of the past; and to serve as a useful body of information for 
historians and editors of early keyboard music. 
SBSSSSRSSSSSSSRRSTESRSESTSSSSSTSRRETRERRRERRERERRRRERE 
EERE 
a 
pe 
organ 
energy, or would it only work when the wind was blowing? 
— 
Wooden pipe of a Principal or Open Diapason, 16 ft. 
Building Electric Organs 
Books: Electronic Musical Instruments by Richard H. Dorf (president 
of Schoeber) is available 1) from 
Schoeber Electronics 
43 West 61st St. 
New York, N.Y. 10023 
and 2) from libraries. C. 1968 
Frequency Divider Organs for the Constructor (hardbound) and An 
Electronic Organ for the Home Constructor (hardbound) written by 
Alan Douglas, published in.England by 
Sir Isaac Pitman & Sons, Ltd. 
39 Parker St. 
Kingsway, London W.C.2 
England 
in preparation, same author and publ; Transitor Elec. Organs for the 
Amateur. 
Kits: from 
Schober Organ Corp. 
43 West 61st St. 
New York, N.Y. 10023; literature and plastic demo record on request. 
Electric Organs 
I. “Electronic Musical Instruments” hardbound only, $10 ppd., is 1) 
a buyers guide to commercially available organs and 2) an instruction 
manual on technical aspects of elec. organs generally. Dorf is a 
leading authority and received cooperation from all the companies 
whose organs were reviewed. 
II. The two books by Alan Douglas are plans, circuit diagrams, etc. 
for home construction with parts bought at a radio supply store (a 
complete list of which is in the index). “An Electronic Organ for 
the Home Constructor” deals with a A.G.O. Standard organ with 
separate generators for all tones. 
“Frequency Divider Organs. ..” 
involves a more common modern system in which separate generators 
are used for the highest octave in the organ and all other lower tones 
are produced by division. Both books deal with tube and valve 
types; a solid state edition is said to be in preparation. 
III. Kits: While the Douglas books all require a rather solid 
backing in electronics, persons who read English, solder, and have 
time, can probably manage any organ in kit form. HEATHKIT/ 
THOMAS has two models with an impressive array of gadgets and 
questionable use musically. SCHOBER ELECTRONICS has five 
models, with base prices from about $500 to $1850. Numerous 
money-saving (or cost-spreading) routes of purchase are open, in- 
cluding buying in pieces (in the order you will need them for 
construction), cabinet kits, buying no cabinet and receiving plans 
for use with lumber of your choice, addition at a later date of 
optional equipment (reverb, percussion, etc.) LP demo records 
available, Literature and plstic demo record free-on request. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Charles Kopp] 
BESB SSB SSS RSSRBR SRB RBRBRBERBERSSRRESSREBBeeee 
Clavichord Advice 
Relatively simple kits available in varying degrees of completeness: 
from one where you must do all the cabinet and need a reasonable 
woodworking shop to one that requires only hand tools. 
Wallace Zuckermann, Herbert Burton. 
A full size concert instrument in kit form designed by one of the 
modern masters. (400-600 hours) Frank Hubbard. 
Supplies and parts for scratch builders: 
B & G Instrument Workshop 
8012 Forest Drive N.E. 
Seattle, Washington 98115 
Superb Custom Instruments, Harpsichords, virginals, spinets, and 
clavichords in elegant period cabinets: 
B. W. M. Benn Harpsichords 
4424 Judson Lane 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55435 
They might also be interested in another dulcimer & psaltery kit 
source: 
Here Inc. 
410 Cedar Avenue 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
Sincerely, 
Bradley W. M. Benn 
Minneapolis, Minn. 
Zuckermann Harpsichord Kits 
I’m an enthusiastic backer of Zuckermann kits for harpsichords 
and clavichords. 
Zuckermann levels with you about the diffi- 
culties involved, then makes it all easy with good, cheap kits and 
excellent instructions. 
The harpsichord weighs about 150 Ibs 
and can hold its own as a solo instrument or in chamber groups. 
The clavichord is a suitcase-sized delight, very expressive but 
very soft, quick to assemble, and easy to carry along on trips or 
to have in a very cramped dwelling. 
There are more historically 
authentic kits available, but none that will get you into Renaissance 
and Baroque music more quickly, more cheaply, and with greater 
satisfaction. 
Harpsichord kits start at$150, clavichords about 
$7125. 
[Reviewed by Edward Allen] 
Zuckermann Harpsichords 
115 Christopher St. 
New York, N.Y. 10014 
“SES
SRSRE 
ESR 
RRRESTSESESS 
Reese 
eee 
mae: 
