- 
ly 
4 
Poearas oor 
ful parts are on at 
, 
driven, and jetted — 
drilling with military 
development and rede- 
The WHO Book on water supply (p.72) has much better 
information on dug wells and spring development. 
ar 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
aa 
Another simple method of testing is to pour water into the well. 
If 
the well point is in dry sand, all of the water added will drain into 
the sand. If the well point is in water-bearing sand, the added water 
also will seep out but only to the static level or the water table 
elevation. When the well point is in water-bearing sand, the quantity 
of water that can be poured into the well continuously is a 
rough measure of the rate at which the well can be pumped, since 
the saturated sand yields water about as freely as it absorbs it. 
Sometimes raising or lowering the well point a foot or more brings 
a greater length of the screen into contact with the water-bearing 
sand and a greater yield results. 
Figure 28. Expedient support for driven well. 
b. In constructing bored wells, small rocks or boulders may be 
. 
encountered that will prevent further penetration. When this occurs, 
mer 
lift the auger from the hole, remove the cutting bit, and replace it 
with a spiral or ram’s horn auger. This tool is then lowered into the 
hole and turned in a clockwise direction. The spiral will usually 
twist around the rock so that it can be lifted to the surface. The 
regular bit is then replaced and boring continued. 
If an extremely 
y 
large boulder is encountered and it cannot be removed with the 
spiral auger, the hole will have to be abandoned and another one 
2 
started elsewhere. 
| 
ae oa pe 
er 
. 
. 
Se \ 
Pea 
ity a) 
E 
Rife Hydraulic Rams 
¥ 
_ 
a mechanical magic way of pumping water. 
“Now I realize that not very many people can dig on this. 
. Monitor Pumps 
[Suggested by Pete Schermerhorn and S. Hamill Horne] 
But it’s actually an established fact that our national leaders are 
. elbow grease hand pumpstands 
free 
from: 
Box 367 
vansville, Wisconsin 53536 
Hydra-Drill 
free 
from: 
Box 870 
Information 
Rife Hydraulic Engine Manufacturing Co. 
OR IN 
HOUSE 
mucus like the State Department's into hydrogen bombs. 
It’s 
ker Manufacturing Co. 
Millburn, New Jersey 17041 
| 
USUAL METHOD OF INSTALLING A RIFE HYDRAULIC RAM. THIS*MAY BE VARIED, | E8st is really about, if 
not mucus? A whole big goddamn mucus 
DEPENDING ON LOCAL CONDITIONS. 
plot run right there in Washington, D.C. by the Food and Drug 
looks like a good way to get shallow 
water, tap springs, bore blasting 
holes. priced around $350.00, 
Infotmation 
Deeprock Manufacturing Co. 
Opelika, Alabama 36801 
The HYDRA-DRILL is designed to drill 
water wells approx. 34’' diameter and up 
to 200’ deep. Because it is economical, 
portable and easy to use, many contractors 
PLASTIC 
and prospectors use it for coring and 
Danes 
other test drilling. 
The HYDRA-DRILL is powered by the latest model TECUMSEH 
3-H.P. engine featuring needle bearings thru out. A thumb-bar 
_ throttle control affords total operator control. The rugged 36:1 gear 
Wells. 
_ reducer converts the 3,600 engine rpm to 100 rpm for the hi-torque 
ae 
=i 
_ 
required for hard drilling. 
Land Use 
: 
ae 
Well Deine Operations 
Army & Air 
Force Technical Manual 
TM 5-297 AFM 85-23 
1965; 249 pp. 
$1.00 postpaid 
from: 
U.S. Government Printing Office 
Division of Public Documents 
re 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Leffel Hydraulic Turbines 
if you have a good head of water nearby, 
a creek, river, reservoir, dam, 
then you can build a electrical 
system powered by the water. There 
are homemeade methods, and used turbines, 
but it helps if you understand what 
it takes to change the creek into a lightbulb. 
Leffel has been doing this industrially for 
a hundred or so years, but they also have single 
family systems. Ask for Pamphlet A 
and Bulletin H-49. 
jd 
[suggested by Pete Schermerhorn] 
Information 
op 
| 
free 
from: 
The James Leffel Company 
Springfield, Ohio 45501 
dedicated to the pro-mucus ethic. They consciously and maliciously 
intend people to get hooked on mucus-causing food as a means of 
keeping them in bondage and servitude, so they'll buy anything 
that promises to keep the specter of age eighty at a safe distance. 
You take the Food and Drug Administration. Big time outfit, 
TANKUGN GOWER 
right? Big federal scene up there in Washington. They’re into 
mop rr ren a 
ee 
like the President's got these two big heavy numbers he’s laying 
on people, hydrogen bombs and youth-cult mucus promotion as 
a means of subjecting the world--not just this country, mind you, 
that’s old nineteenth century hat--but the whole entire world to 
a mucus-loving servitude. That’s what’s behind the eighteen year 
old vote shuck. And the Peace Corps. Big youth-cult mucus 
oriented shuck. 
“It's like these friends of mine. | had these friends used to be 
in the Peace Corps, over in Africa, trying to turn the spades onto 
mucus. Stayed over there two years pretending to help the people, 
and all the time he was trying to get ‘em hooked on mucus. And 
SE 
the poor people in Appalachia, down there in Kentucky, and West 
Virginia, and in the slums, giving away all those food stamps won't 
a 
TILE) 
DRAIN 
buy anything except a lot of pasty mucus-making food. And the 
GATE 
VALVES 
Middle East. What do you think all that friction over in the Middle 
i 
ELEVATION 
WATER 
LEVEL 
PIPE 
Administration. Trying to stop drugs that might help enlighten 
the people about the evils of mucus-making food, and promote 
mucus-spreading foods all because our national leaders are de- 
termined to stamp out health and Spirituality, and because they’re 
against people getting old naturally and gracefully. 
"Look at the state of old people in America. Look at what 
America reduces old people to. People in the western world are 
absolutely terrified of getting old. That’s because instinctively 
they understand, although intellectually they reject it, that 
man’s true sexual possibilities don’t even begin till around the age 
of ninety. 
It's a fear of sex, and for sex read natural health and 
vigor, disguised as a fear of death. Shit. Do you know what the 
average life span was among the ancient Sumerians? A hundred and 
sixty-two years. The average, mind you. Their elders lived well 
over two hundred years, and death at a mere hundred was con- 
sidered tragically premature. Those people knew, man. They knew 
about everything. Western People can’t even conceive the kind 
of sex trip those dudes were into. Western people are fuck- 
gluttons, just like they’re food-gluttons. Got to have it, got to 
have it, got to have it, and it’s all just one big energy-wasting, 
mucus-oriented scam, shaped and defined and made into policy, 
as | say, by the American federal government, with the Food and 
Drug Administration as the Principal architects. The Western idea 
ts to get people to ball two or three times a week, and eat a lot 
of mucus-producing food so their minds won't ever wonder how 
it would be without all that mucus. The Sumerians knew better. 
All they ate were walnuts, and they only fucked once a year. 
-jd 
REAMER 
BIT 
(continued) 
