Man Adapting 
The focus of this book is the human individual, what he has 
to deal with in this life, and what means he has to do the 
dealing with. Dubos is a superdoctor, so you get a damned 
well-informed medical perspective on questions of environ- 
ment, population, health, nutrition, adaptation, etc. that 
subverts many a popular opinion. 
“In most cases, man’s responses are determined less by the direct 
effects of the stimulus on his body fabric than by the symbolic 
interpretation he attaches to the stimulus. Human beings may 
suffer and even die under circumstances which seem highly 
favorable to physiological performance, whereas paradoxically 
others will prosper even though conditions appear almost incom- 
patible with the maintenance of life.” 
—SB 
The concept of perfect and positive health is a utopian creation of the 
o 
human mind. 
It cannot become reality because man will never be so 
perfectly adapted to his environment that his life will not involve 
struggles, failures, and sufferings. Nevertheless, the utopia of positive 
health constitutes a creative force beeause, like other ideals, it sets 
goals and helps medical science to chart its course toward them. The 
hope that disease can be completely eradicated becomes a dangerous 
mirage only when its unattainable character is forgotten. 
It can then 
be compared to a will-o’-the-wisp luring its followers into the swamps 
of unreality. In particular, it encourages the illusion that man can 
control his responses to stimuli and can make adjustments to new ways 
of life without having to pay for these adaptive changes. The less 
pleasant reality is that in an ever-changing world each period and each 
“The negative aspects of biological interrelationships are not the 
most common in nature, nor are they the most important in the 
long run, Under natural conditions, a state of equilibrium is 
commonly reached between various living forms when they have 
long been associated in a given area. 
This equilibrium is achieved 
through biological and social mechanisms that permit the survival 
and perpetuation of all species involved.” 
type of civilization will continue to have its burden of diseases created 
- 
by the unavoidable failures of adaptation to the new environment. 
e 
The truth is, that improvements in the general nutritional state began 
The paradoxical truth is that the phenomenal increase in world popu- 
lation during the past 50 years has coincided with great epidemics, 
two world wars, several minor ones, and deep disruptions of social 
and economic life everywhere. Furthermore, as is well known, the 
most destitute and disease-ridden populations of the world are pre- 
cisely the ones that are increasing the fastest. 
e 
when prosperity and greater facilities for the transportation of food 
made it possible for many people to afford at least one square meal 
a day; likewise, the mortality of many infections began to recede in a 
dramatic fashion in Western Europe and North America long before 
the introduction of specific methods of therapy, indeed before the 
demonstration of the germ theory of disease. 
The Age of Discontinuity 
-How come Peter Drucker has so much good sense and 
perspective, and still remains so cheerful? Traditionally 
f 
2 
: 
: 
ions 
: 
The Age of Discontinuity 
considerations such as his—economics, organizations, the 
Peter F. Drucker 
future—turn a prophet’s soul terrible and dark or at least 
1969; 401 pp. 
partially wiggy. The only other intact floater on this ocean 
$7.95 
a 
/-know of is Marshall McLuhan. 
You sense that both of 
ae 
iimostbar 
from: 
them have a backyard in their mind that resides somewhere 
else, some time else. 
(It would be worth pursuing this. 
How To Think Big and Stay Sane.) 
Harper & Row 
49 East 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Age of Discontinuity takes notice of the remarkable 
continuity of the last 50 years in building on the 
technological breakthroughs of the Victorian era. Now, 
says Drucker, we are in for some hard changes, particularly 
around new technologies (of information, materials, oceans, 
megalopolis), global economics, and redistribution of 
responsibility in large organizations. 
—SB 
enc cc ec ac 
accra rarer carrer a a 
aITtEITItIttnI Ey aS Enna 
The Phenomenon of Man 
i 
Man Adapting 
RENE DUBOS 
Man Adapting 
René Dubos 
1965; 527 pp. 
$3.75 postpaid 
from: 
Yale University Press 
149 York Street 
New Haven, Conn. 06511 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Since the computer first appeared in the late 1940's the information 
industry has been a certainty. But we do not have it yet. We still 
do not have the effective means to build an “information system.” 
This is where the work is going on, however, The tools to create 
information systems may already exist: 
the communications satellite 
and other means of transmitting information, microfilm and the TV 
tube to display and store it, rapid printers to reduce it to permanent 
record, and so on. There is no technical reason why someone like 
Sears Roebuck should not.come out tomorrow with an appliance 
selling for less than a TV set, capable of being plugged in wherever 
there is electricity, and giving immediate access to all the information 
needed for schoolwork from first grade through college. 
Yet though IBM is now shipping computers at a rate of a thousand 
a month, we do not have the equivalent of Edison’s light bulb. 
What we are lacking is not a piece of hardware like the light bulb. 
What we still have to create is the conceptual understanding of 
information. 
As long as we have to translate laboriously every set 
of data into a separate ‘‘program,” we do not understand information. 
We have to be capable of classifying information according to its 
characteristics. We have to have a ‘’notation,’” comparable to the 
one St. Ambrose invented 1,600 years ago to record music, that can 
expres words and thoughts in symbols appropriate to electronic 
pulses rather than in the clumsy computer language of today. Then 
each person could, with very little training, store his own data within 
a general system, that is, in what the computer engineers call a 
“routine.” Then we shall have true “information systems.” 
ee Se ee 
See 
Teilhard de Chardin’s vision and expression of that vision are 
beautiful—of man evolving a super-abundance of mind; in the 
noosphere where the All and the Person are one. 
The only way 
to put all this together without feeling bullshitted is to read 
The Phenomenon of Man. 
Reading The Phenomenon of Man js a bit unnerving: Teilhard 
de Chardin manages to say most of the things many of us are 
trying to say. He said them in 1938. Was no-one listening? 
The Phenomenon of Man dea/s with evo/ution—the ascent to 
consciousness. 
The plan of the book is 
Only one reality seems to survive and be capable of 
succeeding and spanning the infinitesimal and the immense: 
energy—that floating, universal entity from which all 
emerges and into which all falls back as into an ocean; 
energy, the new spirit, the new God. 
Pre-life: 
Life: Thought—three events sketching in the 
past and determining for the future (survival) a single 
and continuing trajectory, the curve of the phenomenon 
of man. 
hominisation...noogenesis...cosmogenesis...when Teilhard de 
Chardin uses a simple word like homogeneous something 
His aim is to try to see (and to help us to see) 
‘ 
magical happens to it. 
to try to develop a homogeneous and coherent perspec- 
tive of our 
general extended experience of man. A 
er 
ae 
F 
whole aie 
unfolds 
The Omega point is where man is God and God is man, where 
all layers of the noosphere become involuted, fusing and con- 
suming the All and the Person integrally in itself. 
The mind is essentially the power of synthesis and 
organisation. 
Teilhard de Chardin 
The 
PHENOMENON 
53°F 
H. soloensis 
h 
A. sapiens e, AA 
* 
SaaS, 
ie 
50 
\ 
SNE 
“50 
i 
é 
i 
i 
1 
DIAGRAM 4. 
The development of the human Layer. 
The figures on the left indicate thousands of years: 
They 
VS 
are a minimum estimate and should probably be at least 
100 
ZS x 
doubled. 
The hypothetical zone of convergence on the poine 
AP 
Omega is obviously not to scale. 
By analogy with other 
Sey 
living layers, its duration should certainly run into thousands 
of years. 
— Homo sapiens 
-=-— Neanderthaloid 
The Phenomenon of Man 
ae aaa 
--- Prehominians 
wt 
arper 
ai 
lopi 
ZENE 
Teilhard de Chardin 
49 East 33 Street 
pe ee 
Za5on' 
Socialized Zone 
1959; 320 pp. 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
$1.95 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Underlying the beautiful presentation of man’s ascent towards 
consciousness is a hard core of science: 
Man, in nature, is a genuine fact, falling...within the 
scope of the requirements and methods of science. 
[Reviewed by Dave Evans. 
Suggested by Julia Brand.] 
res 
Pe 
= 
, 
SS 
x 
ay 
oe, Bais 
\ 
. 
; 
Nn or re 
CS 
s» 
A PLACE FOR EVERYTHING 
AND EVERYTHING IN ITS PLACE 
Estelle everything’s by god | really believe it is. You can 
tell it, you can feel it, the signs are all around. This is here and 
we are now.and the intersection of time and space is just special 
as hell, and I'm going to find out some things we need to know. 
| believe there’s going to be better relations between east and west. 
| believe if we get organized, a place for everything and everything 
in its place, books in a book box, clothes in a clothes box honey 
you’ve done a wonderful, you have now, and | love you for it 
and take heart and:determine to be better than I’ve been in a 
long time. Those women understood every word | said. When 
we get to St. Louis. Are these crackers any good? Where's the 
tape recorder? Where'd | put the casettes? When we get to 
St. Louis I’m going to get some car polish and wax old Urge all 
over. 
Is this to throw away? Ain’t this box any good? We need 
all the boxes in St. Louis I’m going to get ten cardboard boxes 
of identical size and label them with what they’re supposed to 
hold. Books in one, look at this shit on my Whole Earth Catalog. 
Fuck, | was going to order some stuff out of there. Books in one 
box, tape shit in another, every goddamn thing we got’s going to 
have its proper place. You've done a wonderful thing here honey, 
you really have. You ought to see their tent. From now on. 
When we get to St. Louis. Here, let me lift that for you. Wait! 
Don’t throw that glass away. Here, I'll wash-it out after while, 
| want to put a wildflower in it. | got into this rap about space, 
you know? | was afraid. But they knew exactly and | believe the 
world’s getting to be a better place. | receive that from somewhere 
in my mind. 
| think love and gentleness and neighborliness and 
human harmony are going to prevail. 
| think the stars are moving 
into very particular cosmic arrangements. And we've got to do 
our part. | believe it all depends on everybody doing his part. 
Look at this bus, goddamn | bet old Urge is proud. 
Human Evolution 
Whole Systems 
