atically, eer rectiealy: and the 
we live is no prize either. 
| personally 
1ese 
two toward the Let /t Be end of things, 
t nothing more than glands to back my arguments, 
» 
the economics of a quack biologist: 
evolution 
plus unfettered mistakes. 
Friedman, distinguished Chicago-schoo! economist, 
is Black, hairy power-to-the-peopler. 
Both find 
it management of the economy consistently 
infreeing, and usually in the dark about what's 
n. They have some proposals; specific, radical 
—SB 
sity of Chicago Press 
Nis Ave. 
OLE EARTH CATALOG 
could say to the rest of the world: 
We believe in freedom 
intend to practice it. No one can force you to be free. 
is your business. 
But we can offer you full co-operation 
al terms to all. Our market is open to you. 
Sell here 
vat you can and wish to. 
Use the proceeds to buy what you 
h. In this way co-operation among individuals can be world 
- 
yet free. 
- 
Which if any of the great “reforms” of past decades has achieved 
bjectives? 
Have the good intentions of the proponents of 
reforms been realized? 
ulation of the railroads to protect the consumer quickly 
me an instrument whereby the railroads could protect 
mselves from the competition of newly emerging rivals— 
at 
expense, of course, of the consumer. 
ncome tax initially enacted at low rates and later seized upon 
means to redistribute income in favor of the lower classes has 
me a facade, covering loopholes and special provisions that 
\der rates that are highly graduated on paper largely ineffective. 
\ 
flat rate of 23-1/2 percent on presently taxable income would 
ield as much revenue as the present rates graduated from 20 to 
r cent. 
An income tax intended to reduce inequality and 
ets the diffusion of wealth has in practice fostered reinvest- 
it of corporate earnings, thereby favoring the growth of large 
rporations, inhibiting the operation of the capital market, and 
ouraging the establishment of new enterprises. 
onetary reforms, intended to promote stability in economic 
tivity and prices, exacerbated inflation during and after World 
War and fostered a higher degree of instability thereafter than 
ver been experienced before. 
The monetary authorities they 
lished bear primary responsibility for converting a serious 
Onomic contraction into the catastrophe of the Great Depression 
from 1929-33. 
A system established largely to prevent bank 
ics produced the most severe banking panic in American 
. 
. A housing program intended to improve the housing 
nditions of the poor, to reduce juvenile delinquency, and to 
ibute to the removal of urban slums, has worsened the 
ing conditions of the poor, contributed to juvenile delinquency, 
spread urban blight. 
e 1930's, “labor” was synonomous with “‘labor union” to the 
lectual community; faith in the purity and virtue of labor 
inions was on a par with faith in home and motherhood. 
Extensive 
islation was enacted to favor labor unions and to foster “’fair”’ 
or relation. 
labor unions waxed in strength. 
By the 1950's, 
abor union” was almost a dirty word; it was no longer synonomous 
1 “labor,” no longer automatically to be taken for granted as 
the side of the angels. 
8e 
oO. 
y 
— 
=] 
ertarian Periodicals 
From Ayn Rand to bushy anarchists there is an occasional 
ent on means called libertarianism, which is a faith 
laissez-faire politics/economics. 
It’s damn near the only 
cific set of radical economic proposals around. 
The 
. 71 issue of A is A has a directory of libertarian 
riodicals, scads of them. How to hate your government 
—SB 
9730 Hyne Rd. 
‘on, Michigan 48116 
Individualist 
3) Parkside Gardens 
London, S.W. 19, England 
Edit: 
Henry Meulen 
12 pp., 5% « 8% 
Offset, stitched, 
$2.40/6. 
Every 
2mo. 
Adv. 
1970 is the hundredth ann 
versary of this journal of the 
Personal Rights Association. 
Short 
notes, comments, and reviews of 
economic and political affairs in 
Britain, 
Laissez faire viewpoint 
Mr. Meulen is the author of 
Free Banking 
answer inquiry. 
leported to contain articles, 
ry, 
3 "ios pect humor, 
Capitalism 
Communications 
a 
oe 
A 
te 
~ 
— 
a. 
rom Rinehart & Winston, Inc. 
383 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Let's quit fooling ourselves. 
Get rid of the progressive income tax. 
In its place put a flat 20-percent tax on all income over a certain 
minimum, while eliminating all escape clauses. 
We'll end up getting 
more from the rich than now, for it will no longer be worth it 
to them to cheat and look for legal loopholes with the aid of 
lawyers. 
As an added attraction, those high-paid tax lawyers will 
then be out of their jobs. Their salaries may suffer, and so more 
legal aid might be funneled to defending the poor in our rich man’s 
system of “justice’’. 
Getting rid of our present income-tax mess would also save 
taxpayers 
a wad. 
How? 
By eliminating the time and effort that 
they and their accountants spend on filing returns. 
In a recent 
study the American Bar Association came up with the estimate 
that we had put a preposterous $1.3 billion of effort into filing 
1967 returns. 
A highly respected member of the Budget Bureau got the 
figures together on how much was being spent on all poverty 
programs. 
He then calculated the total cost of direct payments to 
all families necessary to bring everyone above the “poverty line.” 
The conclusion he reached was that direct income payments would 
add up to less than half the present poverty-help outlays! 
Even 
the Wallace asshole around the corner may be convinced by the 
tax savings to him that unworthy niggers, hippies, artists, and 
bums should all get a minimum income, too. 
Another important benefit of direct minimum-income payments 
would be a renewed sense of dignity for the current welfare 
poor. 
We also could eliminate the numerous political connections 
so often tied to welfare and other such programs (as occur daily 
in Daleyland, U.S.A.). 
Think, too, of all those snooping social 
workers who will be forced to do something worthwhile for a 
change. 
The minute you accept censorship of advertising you're paving 
the way for government Fascists imposing their uptight, puritanical 
outdated values on the rest of society. 
Being unduly deprived of 
bare tit on the tube is one thing. 
Big Brother is another. 
Why don’t building codes work? 
The answer is easy. 
Special- 
interest groups, like producers and repairmen, have concentrated, 
well-defined goals. They can attack with vigor any changes in 
legislation that will harm them. 
Consumers, on the other hand, 
have millions of goals as the buyers of products. 
They are a 
diversified group of people who cannot collect forces easily to 
fight legislation that may affect the production of only a small 
aspect of what some of them are buying. 
e 
For anarchy to work, however, all members of society must be 
fairly homogeneous. 
There would be open season on wops, 
wetbacks, kikes, niggers, hippies, polacks, redheads, and cripples 
if the Constitution didn’t exist. 
Many more of us would end up 
like Captain Amerika and Billy. 
! happen to want to keep my hair 
long and curly. 
You may not want ever to wear shoes. The only 
way to prevent the majority from forcing us to change is to 
have some guarantee of our rights enforced. 
Anarchy is not the 
answer. 
We should therefore keep government, but reduce its 
Power over our economic, moral, and social lives. 
What should we do, then, to solve our problems? 
Demand only 
a few simple realistic programs from the powers that be— 
enforce- 
ment of contracts, protection of constitutional rights, 
a minimum 
income, and the distribution of educational taxes by way of 
certificates. 
Anything more complex will only give every rotten 
profiteer in the country a chance to fatten his purse at our 
expense. 
My plea is clear: 
less government today 
even less tomorrow. 
— 
The RSVP Cycles 
The RSVP Cycles 
js a scoring guide, a technical manual, 
highly illustrated and explicated in everyman language. 
It is 
a self-defining, singing, swinging score (S) of Halprin’s own 
performance (P), his electric, focused stash of resources (R) from 
the | Ching, to a controversial Northwestern-Minnesota football 
p
play and his conscientiously objective valuactions (V),— 
a term 
he coined to suggest action and decision aspects of the RSVP 
cycles. 
Profusely graphic and photographic, excellently designed by 
Barbara Stauffacher Solomon. 
The RSVP Cycles is a collector's 
item, a conversation piece de resistance, a real-time information/ 
slice delicacy. 
. 
.The “Driftwood Villages” story and photographs 
depicting experimental scoring and building of a community 
from available beach materials, provides precise images of the 
Halprins’ own creative in-process use of RSVP cycles and frames 
perspective for the assemblage pot-latch of world-wide historical 
goodies in the book. 
Using splendid examples such as his own project at Sea Ranch, 
a 10-mile long ecologically scored development on the Northern 
California coast and Lovejoy Plaza and Cascade, a public space 
in Portland, Oregon, scored for people participation, Halprin 
superimposes the natural geometry of his RSVP cycles against 
the functional perspective of his experience. 
[Reviewed by Gerd Stern] 
[Reprinted from Landscape Architecture, Jan 77] 
The RSVP Cycles 
Boshee es aS 
Process 
Y 
= 
Cvalibsury’ 
Creative Processes 
in the 
: 
Human Environment 
Lawrence Halprin 
The RSVP Cycles: Creative Process 
in the Human Environment 
Lawrence Halprin 
1969; 207 pp. 
$15.00 postpaid 
from: 
George Braziller, Inc. 
One Park Avenue 
2 
New York, New York 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
One of the gravest dangers that we experience is the danger of 
becoming goal-oriented. |t is a tendency that crops up on every 
hand and in every field of endeavor. It is a trap which goes like this: 
things are going poorly (in the realm of politics or religion or building 
a city or the world community or a personal relationship or whatever). 
As thinking people we must try to solve this problem that faces us. 
Let us set ourselves a ‘’goal’’ upon which we can all agree (most 
goals after all are quite clearly moralistically based and incontro- 
vertibly ‘good ideas’). Having set ourselves this goal we can then 
proceed posthaste to achieve it by the most direct method possible. 
Everyone can put his shoulder to the wheel, and systems engineering, 
technology, and our leader (or whatever) will get us to the agreed 
goal. 
It doesn’t work! The results of this oversimplified approach, now 
coming into general vogue, are all around us in the chaos of our 
cities and the confusion of our politics (or other politics—fascism 
and communism are clear statements of this approach.) It generates 
tension in personal relationships by burying the real problems; 
it avoids the central issue of education, which is why today’s 
young people are dropping out; it is destroying the resources and 
physical beauty of our planet; and it avoids the basic issue. 
The relationship of the Tarot cards to the / 
Ching hexagrams 
is remarkable; both deal with universal ideas and problems facing 
us all in life situations. Both connect us with the subconscious 
activities of the human mind and with natural processes. Both 
deal with archetypal examples of what Jung has called the “collective 
unconscious.” In both the divination process itself requires a 
letting go of the intellect—an acknowledgement of the rhythmic and 
unconscious forces at work in the universe. If we can give way 
to these forces and think of ourselves as part of the universal 
processes of living, of time in space, then we can release 
ourselves from preconceptions and hangups which prevent and 
block creativity. One of the important functions of scores is to make 
possible and accepted nonrational means of ‘‘getting at’’ problems. 
Both the Tarot cards and the / Ching have been used by musicians 
such as Pauline Olivieros and Morton Subotnik as compositional 
devices. Pauline Olivieros has said ‘’| mix chance and choice somewhat 
=’ 
scandalously”’ (Notations, John Cage). 
. 
