This 
Ls terly 
tiful 
k 
dy 
oF the peop: 
history, geography, and vareceee architecture in a small 
area in southern Italy known as the Murgia of Trulli. 
The several different types of stone shelters of the region 
are covered extensively, including cave dwellings hewn 
from solid stone, unmortared stone domes called trulli, 
and arches and vau/ts built with “ragbag patchwork tech- 
nique” by the masons of Cisternino. 
The book is primarily concerned with how the archi- 
tectural forms came into being and how the building 
techniques derived from the needs of the builders. 
Descriptions and text are clear, photos superb. 
ae 
—Lloyd Kahn 
Stone Shelters 
_ Edward Allen 
1969; 199 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
New paper edition 
~ from: 
The M.1.T. Press 
50 Ames Street, Room 765 
The making of a cave is the antithesis of the usual construction 
process. A cave is space produced directly by the subtraction of 
a relatively small amount of solid material from avery large mass. 
A more conventional shelter, whether it be a trullo, a vaulted 
stone townhouse, or the reader’s own dwelling, is space produced 
indirectly by its enclosure with pieces of solid material added 
together. 
ee 
: 
2S 
es 
Sue, 
§ 
Tufo is a marvelous material. 
It is dense enough and hard enough to 
have served as both exterior and interior finishes, yet soft and fine- 
grained enough to have been cut into almost any shape for any pur- 
pose. Because of the immense height, length, and thickness of the 
tufo cliffs, great freedom of planning was possible. 
TORRE 
a 
Stone Works 
Stone walls & buildings. These are actually weaker than they look. 
It was the wood frame houses that survived the Alaskan earthquake. 
Cement got no give like wood & stonework is much slower than 
carpentry. 
Still it looks like all time and we went ahead. 
In planning make sure 
your foundation extends deeper than the frost will. Here in Maine 
frost heave is a prime consideration for a stone building could easily 
be cracked to bits. 
Surround the foundation with rocks of any size & type up to grade 
to allow for movement. 
Don’t pack dirt in there. 
As for type of rocks to build with, granite is best. Save your really 
Square stones for corners. Stratified, slate, etc. (| don’t know the geo- 
logical terms) are no good. These sedimentary types are porous and 
the water they suck up will expand/contract and’you’re in trouble. If 
you toss it down on the pile & it shatters there you are. 
But don’t 
slam it cause anything would crack from that. 
Use forms to get the straightest walls. Within these you can lay up 
vertically faster than without, but time saved is lost putting the forms 
together so the outside surface should be the consideration for forms. 
Our walls are straight enough to sight down tho it’s a personal aesthetic. 
Even with forms, don’t just toss the rocks & mortar in. A strong 
beautiful wall is laid up rock by rock. No other way. 
| worked with 
a mason of 60 years to learn to lay fie!dstone. Practice is the way. 
Knowing which rock to choose from your pile. Like a puzzle with 
no two parts the same. Choosing the wrong rock means that your 
work comes down on your feet. (So don’t be barefoot! 
Also cement 
contains lye that burns like brimstone. Wash the stuff off afore it eats 
your very hide. After a few weeks you'll have to wear rubber work- 
gloves as your hands will be most tender.) An old Maine stonemason 
told me that ‘Even a round rock has a flat side if you can find it.” 
After building a while you'll understand this. Lay up a rock for 
strength always thinking of the rock that will rest atop it. Don’t be 
cheap with the mud (cement) but learn what it won’t do. Sometimes 
a rock will get a better bite on another when they're dry & just have 
cement around their edges. Like bricks only more tricky. 
If you de- 
cide to eyeball it (build without forms) stretch 2 strings down your 
outside dimension & lean over & sight down. When you only see one 
string that’s your limit. Careful that a rock doesn't protrude & throw 
your line off. It’s easy to build it too wide. 
Have a large pile of rocks to choose from. Tiny to fist size stones are 
what you need to trig up the biggies that wobble. 
Little triangular 
shapes are best. Build a wall that rests on rocks tho, not tiny trigs or 
cement. The old timers here built walls without any kind of mortar (!) 
but just skill in laying. Those walls are still solid 130 years later. So 
LAY up your rocks, don’t glue them up. 
Progress right around your foundation a layer at a time so that when 
you come back to the starting point you'll be laying on dry or almost 
dried wall. This isn’t possible if you're using forms. This because you 
have to build right up several feet & then move this whole rig down the 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142 
r WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A transitional form of trullo field shelter, nonrectilinear in plan. 
A main space is joined to a smaller one housing a fireplace. Such 
shelters are often found with two or three smaller spaces attached 
to the main space, as illustrated in the small sketches. 
(Plan and 
section courtesy Byggekunst, redrawn by the author.) 
Nes 
3 
y.. 1 
Ba 
, 
ae eae 
‘ 
‘ 
oi 
We built a building 30x36x11 with foundations 4 feet deep on a 1 ft. 
poured concrete footing. Wall thickness was 1% ft. up to grade & a 
foot above ground. Solid enough for Maine but you might scale this 
down a great deal in a milder climate. 
(By the way, if you're building 
stone walls around an existing building it would be most simple, for 
you already have your forms. Accordingly if you plan to have studded 
interior walls go ahead & put up your studding & then cover the out- 
side with plywood & build along that. The plywood could be removed 
when the cement dries & shifted for use again.) 
We used an old gas engine to run our mixer. Keep cement from the 
motor & you'll be ok. Rocks are plentiful in Maine. For special rocks 
try the seashore or a tombstone dealer for scrap. We got lots of col- 
ored marble & granite for a six-pack of Shlitz. Some states forbid sel- 
ling old tombstones but we got some fragments for the walls. Neigh- 
bors consider any messing with tombstones goulish so turn the letter- 
ing to the inside. You may have the sheriff's grandmaw’s rock. 
Lay your heaviest rocks around your feet, as lifting gets hard above 
your chest. 
Favorite, sentimental, or mystical rocks stand out from 
eyelevel to about eight feet up. Don’t bury that romantic special 
thing at ankle level. We tried to get a piece of the moon for our wall 
but NASA never came through. A few meteors might be astrologically 
favorable for your project. Since our walls went up eleven feet we 
laid from the flatbed of a 2-ton truck above 5 or 6 feet. This proved 
to be an ideal mobile staging with room for two masons, mortar box 
and a large rockpile. 
When the walls are finished go back and point up around your rocks. 
Pointing is a mason’s signature. Use pointing cement only in small 
batches (a mixer full will dry out before you could use it) & a small 
trowel. The stuff is quick drying & sticks when you flip it in the 
cracks. 
Look around at good walls before you start. Observe or work with a 
mason if possible. Don’t get discouraged. 
It takes a bit of laying to 
make those rocks stay up there but you can do it if you can dig it. 
Consult the J Ching on any major problem. 
Mark Mendel 
Dixmont, Maine 
ee 
hy 
ee 
lg we ed 
ne The raw. material for a trullo could come from several possible 
sources. Loose stones from the field were one; quarried stone 
another. Often a large rainwater cistern or wine tank would be ~ 
excavated in the rock beneath a frullo-to-be, and would yield a 
- 
large quantity of good building stone. 
In later times especially, 
agricultural transformations were carried out, with great expen- 
diture of labor, to make previously untillable land suitable for 
crops. The thin topsoil would be carefully removed and piled 
to one side, laying bare the limestone bedrock beneath. Then 
the limestone would be broken out in chunks to a depth of two 
or three feet. The best stones would be saved for construction, 
and the rest replaced over the still unbroken strata of the lime 
stone, with the coarsest pieces on the bottom and the finest on 
the top. Following this back-breaking procedure, red bolo soil 
from a neaby depression would be carried to the field in baskets 
and tamped over the loose layers of broken limestone to a depth 
of fifteen or twenty inches. 
Finally, the original topsoil would be 
spread back over the bolo, and the land would be ready for cultiva 
tion. The heavy but sometimes infrequent rainfalls would be absorbed 
eagerly by the shallow topsoil and thick cushion of bolo, and once 
these soils had reached saturation the excess water would filter into 
the loose bed of broken rock beneath, from which, retained by the 
imperivous bedrock, it could be slowly reabsorbed by the soil and 
roots above when needed. This continuous bed of limestone frag- 
ments, in addition to acting as an underground reservGir, served to 
furnish continual chemical fertilization to the soil from beneath, 
to complement the organic fertilizer added from above. 
Sewage was distributed over the fields, working with the natural 
lime to increase the yield of the crops. 
... 
The masons of Cisternino were men of exceptional ingenuity. They 
sometimes laid up walls of regular stone blocks, but in other cases 
made walls by compacting irregular stones:and mortar between wood 
forms. Their combinations of arches and vaults were often graceful 
and correct, but more often were brutally expedient, and were most 
often full-blooded, lusty,-folk-art inventions that made some charming 
ly naive concessions to grace and correctness. 
Nothing was sacred to 
the masons but the sheer physical stability of what they built. A 
half-arch could support a stair, a tilted barrel vault could cover it. A 
round barrel vault could be intersected by pointed-vault dormers. A 
triangular piece of vaulting could support a diagonal balcony front 
if held at its vertex on a projecting stone bracket. 
A buttress toa 
building across the street could resist the excessive thrust of a roof 
vault, or of a too-ambitiously cantilevered balcony. An irregular 
room shape was easily covered with a skewed vault. Almost any- 
thing could be supported or spanned by cutting, twisting, tilting, 
truncating, or combining the standard forms of vaulting in non- 
standard ways. 
NO RESPONSE 
Sad to say, however, D.R.’s clever maneuver did not have the 
result he was so desperate for. Estelle would have nothing to do 
with him when he lay down beside her. She wouldn't wake up, 
nor would her body respond to his as it usually did when they lay 
down together. D.R. shook her, and lifted her eyelids with his 
finger. But there was no response, except once, when he tried 
to hold her in his arms and she moaned and frowned and drew 
away to the far side of the mattress. D.R. thought he would go 
crazy when she did that. He sat up in the bed and Pressed his 
hands to his head as if his skull was about to fly apart. 
In his 
mind he showed himself a little movie in which Estelle sailed away 
on a raft while he was drowning. He swam after her but words 
from the Greek’s incessant talk filled the sail and pushed the boat 
further and further away. 
If he could have managed it, D.R. would 
have sneaked back to his seat in front and been the Greek’s 
listener again. But he knew he couldn’t bring it off. His muddy 
mind convinced him he could never bring it off without getting 
caught and reprimanded by the Greek’s accusing eyes. There 
wasn't anything to do but lie down and try to sleep. 
To D.R.’s relief, sleep came almost immediately. 
It was about 
four in the afternoon now; it had been fourteen hours since he’d 
dropped the acid, and of course he was exhausted. His brain felt 
like it had been washed and hung out to dry. Sleep was the best 
thing that could have happened to him then, and mercifully it 
came. He didn’t hear a word of the Greek’s life story as the Greek 
was telling it. But later that night, deep in Oklahoma, after the 
Greek got out and bade D.R. good luck and farewell, D.R. took 
the wheel and listened to the tape of the Greek’s story as he drove 
non-stop to St. Louis. 
Stone Buildings 
Shelter 
