‘ 
Chuang Tzu: Basic Writings 
a 
great 
long 
string 
of 
solid 
crystal 
fortune cookies 
Chuang Tzu: Basic Writings 
Translated by Burton Watson 
1964; 66; 148pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from 
Columbia University Press 
526 West 113 Street 
New York, N.Y. 10025 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Your life has a limit but knowledge has none. If you use what is 
limited to pursue what has no limit, you will be in danger. If you 
understand this and stil! strive for knowledge, you will be in danger 
for certain! If you do good, stay away from fame. If you do evil, 
stay away from punishments. Follow the middle; go by what is 
constant, and you can stay in one piece, keep yourself alive, look 
after your parents, and live out your years. 
Cook Ting was cutting up an ox for Lord Wen-hui. 
At every touch 
of his hand, every heave of his shoulder, every move of his feet, 
every thrust of his knee—zip! zoop! He slithered the knife along 
with a zing, and all was in perfect rhythm, as though he were 
performing the dance of the Mulberry Grove or keeping time to 
the Ching-shou music. 
“Ah, this is marvelous!” said Lord Wen-hui. “Imagine skill reaching 
such heights! "’ 
Cook Ting laid down his knife and replied, ‘‘What | care about is 
the Way, which goes beyond skill. When | first began cutting 
up oxen, all | could see was the ox itself. After three years | no 
longer saw the whole ox. And now—now | go at it by spirit and 
don’t look with my eyes. Perception and understanding have come 
to a stop and spirit moves where it wants. | go along with the 
natural makeup, strike in the big hollows, guide the knife through 
the big openings, and follow things as they are. So | never touch 
the smallest ligament or tendon, much less a main joint. 
“A good cook changes his knife once a year—because he cuts. A 
mediocre cook changes his knife once a month—because he 
hacks. I've had this knife of mine for nineteen years and I've cut 
thousands of oxen with it, and yet the blade is as good as though 
it had just come from the grindstone. There are spaces between 
the joints, and the blade of the knife has really no thickness. If 
you insert what has no thickness into such spaces, then there’s 
plenty of room—more than enough for the blade to play about 
in. That’s why after nineteen years the blade of my knife is still 
as good as when it first came from the grindstone. 
“However, whenever | come to a complicated 
place, | size up the 
difficulties, tell myself to watch out and be careful, keep my eyes 
on what I’m doing, work very slowly, and move the knife with the 
greatest subtlety, until—flop! the whole thing comes apart like a 
clod of earth crumbling to the ground. | stand there holding the 
knife and look all around me, completely satisfied and reluctant to 
move on, and then | wipe off the knife and put it away.” 
Chuang Tzu and Hui Tzu were strolling along the dam of the Hao 
River when Chuang Tzu said, “See how the minnows come out and 
dart around where they please! That’s what fish really enjoy!”’ 
Hui Tzu said, ‘’You’re not a fish—how do you know what fish 
enjoy?” 
Chuang Tzu said, ‘You're not |, so how do you know | don’t 
know what fish enjoy?” 
Hui Tzu said, ‘I’m not you, so | certainly don’t know what you 
know. On the other hand, you’re certainly not a fish—so 
that still proves you don’t know what fish enjoy!” 
Chuang Tzu said, ’’Let’s go back to your original question, please. 
You asked me how | know what fish enjoy—so you already knew 
1 knew it when you asked the question. | know it by standing here 
beside the Hao.” 
' 
China & Tibet 
Learning 
_ ee a 
ee 
ee ee 
eee ae ee ee 
the way it reads to me: 
pass beyond the little old man 
sitting on 
that ledge of awareness 
on which 
you watch yourself making love, 
become the little old man, 
split him a few times, 
and realize that, 
because all this is possible, 
the light from the golden flower 
dissolves duality 
into the one. 
= jd 
The Secret of the Golden Flower 
translated by Richard Wilhelm 
1962; 149 pp. 
$2.35 postpaid 
from: 
Harcourt Brace and Jovanovich, Inc. 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Secret of the Golden Flower 
She Tttiel 
if. 
the wen Hue 
VeTUNES! 
book ob 
bib 
he MMH WHEE AM 
(ot. 
TENE 
eae 
Now a 
a 
Bel 
Master Lu-Tsu said, When there is a gradual 
success in producing the circulation of the light, 
aman must not give up his ordinary occupation 
in doing it. The ancients said, When occupations 
come to us, we must accept them; when things 
come to us, we must understand them from the 
ground up. If the occupations are properly 
handled by correct thoughts, the light is not 
scattered by outside things, but circulates 
according to its own law. Even the still invisible 
circulation of the light gets started this way; 
how much more, then, is it the case with the 
true circulation of the light which has already 
manifested itself clearly. 
One looks with both eyes at the tip of the nose, 
sits upright and in a comfortable position, and 
holds the heart to the centre in the midst of 
conditions. In Taoism it is called the yellow 
middle, in Buddhism the center of the midst 
of conditions. The two are the same. It does 
not necessarily mean the middle of the head. 
It is only a matter of fixing one’s thinking on 
the point which lies exactly between the two eyes. 
Then all is well. The light is something extremely 
mobile. When one fixes the thought on the mid- 
point between the two eyes, the light streams 
in of its own accord. It is not necessary to 
direct the attention especially to the central 
castle. In these few words the most important 
thing is contained. 
toward knowing the mind 
(talking to yourself) 
and the liberation of realization, 
nirvana, 
oneness with voidness, 
together, 
now, 
and the evaporation of karma, 
The Tibetan Book of the Great Liberation 
poof. 
|
—jd 
[Suggested 
by Sam Bercholz] 
The Tibetan Book 
from: 
of the Great Liberation ©%ford University Press 
W.Y. Evans-Wentz, editor 
200 Madison Avenue 
1969: 261 pp. 
New York, New York 10016 
$2.50 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
THE TIBETAN 
BOOK OF The 
|
GREAT 
LIBERATION 
€ 
he 
meth 
REALIZING NIRVANA 
THROUGH 
© Keown; rhe mosd: 
SUMMERTARY BP cg fing 
In the process of meditating introspectively upon the aphoristic 
teachings concerning the One Mind, the disciple will inevitably 
come face to face with the age-old problem of what man is. He will 
intuitively ask himself, Why am |? What am 1? Am | a something, 
a self, a soul, eternally separate and different from each of the 
countless myriads of similarly constituted beings | see round 
about me in various states of existence? Is the glamorous world 
of appearances real? Are all these inanimate objects and all these 
living, breathing creatures, in the midst of which | find myself, 
real? Or are they, as the Buddhas declare, no more than the content 
of a karmic mirage, the stuff composing the dreams of life? 
When the truth begins to come from within, very feebly at first, 
a 
like the consciousness of a man awakening from the torpor of 
i
a drugged sleep, or like the first traces of dawn coming forth in an 
eastern sky, the disciple will realize gradually that only by transcending 
the realm of separateness and attaining super-consciousness of 
the immutable at-one-ment of all things, organic and inorganic, can 
the age-old problem be solved. The more the disciple meditates upon 
what the self has in common with other selves, the more he 
will discover the impersonal self common to all selves. Thence 
he will reach the conclusion that if one and the same factor 
is the core of each individual's selfhood, no individual in its 
true essence had individuality. There would be nothing like my 
self; there would only be the Self. 
The One Mind being verily of the Voidness and without any 
foundation, one’s mind is, likewise, as vacuous as the sky. To - 
know whether this be so or not, look within thine own mind. 
Being of the Voidness, and thus not to be conceived as having 
beginning or ending, Self-Born Wisdom has in reality been shining 
forever. Like the Sun’s essentiality, itself unborn. To know whether 
this be so or not, look within thine own mind. 
Being merely a flux of instability like the air of the firmament, 
objective appearances are without power to fascinate and fetter. 
To know whether this be so or not, look within thine own mind. 
All appearances are verily one’s own concepts, self-conceived in 
I 
the mind, like reflections seen in a mirror. To know 
whether thisbe 
so or not, look within thine own mind. 
Arising of themselves and being naturally free like the clouds in the 
sky, all external appearances verily fade away into their own 
respective places. To know whether this be so or not, look within 
thine own mind. 
The Realization and the Great Liberation 
Nothing save mind is conceivable. 
Mind, when uninhibited, conceives all that comes into existence. 
That which comes into existence is like the wave of an ocean. 
‘ 
The state of mind transcendent over all dualities brings Liberation. 
It matters not what name may carelessly be applied to mind; 
truly mind is one, and apart from mind there is naught else. 
That Unique One Mind is foundationless and rootless. 
There is nothing else to be realized. 
' 
The Non-Created is the Non-Visible. 
By knowing the invisible Voidness and the Clear Light through 
not seeing them separately—there being no multiplicity in the 
Voidness—one’s own clear mind may be known, yet the Thatness 
i 
itself is not Knowable. 
) 
Mind is beyond nature, but is experienced in bodily forms. 
The realization of the One Mind constitutes the All-Deliverance. 
q
Without mastery of the mental processes there can be no 
By,
realization. 
‘
Similarly, although sesamum seed is the source of oil, and 
milk the source of butter, not until the seed be pressed and the 
milk churned do the oil and butter appear. 
Although sentient beings are of the Buddha essence itself, 
not until they realize this can they attain Nirvana. 
Even a cowherd [or an illiterate person] may by realization 
. 
attain Liberation. 
