“Blessed Event at Cabin 
THE FARM JOURNAL AND BABBS JUICE 
Friday June 13, 1969 Weather:Cloudy with chance of clearing 
BLESSED EVENT AT CABIN !!!! 
NADINE AND PAGE PRODUCE !!! 
INTREPID REPORTER ON HAND 
Daughter born to joyous couple sits up for pic. 
Scary Event Almost at Home 
I love every one of you, but I must reluctantly beg to join those who 
plead for less do-it-yourself midwifery unless— and this is a HUGE 
unless— you have a hip doctor on instant, around-the-clock ambulance 
call, and a girl in attendance who has been through a practical-nursing 
course and can (AND WILL!) put her foot down if she sees any signs 
of trouble. 
Take me, for instance. No one could have imagined I’d get into any 
trouble. I'd had two babies as easy as spitting. I thought I was a 
perfect risk for home delivery, but my nasty old spoilsport doctor 
talked me out of it. “Yeah,” I thought, 
“She wants those high 
hospital fees.”” 
Nevertheless, I went into the hospital Grousing to the last minute 
about all that narsty red tape and inhibition of a woman’s simplest 
function. 
Who, me, have trouble? Why, I dropped babies as easy as 
a Chinese peasant woman. And so on, and so forth, far into the 
night. And farther into the night. And farther yet into the— hey, 
damn it, that baby should have been here a long time ago and I was 
beginning to feel rottener than I-(a prime natural-childbirth candi- 
date with two births behind me) should EVER have felt. 
Medication— I still felt worse. 
X-rays; no, not twins, just one block- 
buster. Anesthesia— not enough to put me out but enough to stop 
the screaming (and baby, I’m NOT a coward, I didn’t utter yell one 
when I had a dislocated knee reduced without anesthesia since I 
can’t take demerol.) To late for a Caesarean. More anesthesia. And 
far into the night, with my husband’s face whiter than I ever saw it, 
the doctor dripping with sweat, and finally a “‘blue baby”, eleven 
pounds, bruised and scratched and one shoulder fractured in spite 
of the best O.B. in Berkeley. 
Ten minutes of straight oxygen to 
bring her round, forty stitches or so and (I think) a pint or two of 
blood in me. 
(I lay there and counted the damn stitches while they 
put them in. You can feel them even if they don’t really hurt.) 
Just immagine doing that in your commune? 
Yeah. One woman screaming her head off for eight or nine hours. 
(As I say; I didn’t even moan for No. 1 and No. 2). One dead— 
very dead— baby, probably, at the.end of it, since only incredible 
skill revived this one. Probably one very dead, bled-out woman, 
too. Six.or eight nervous-amateur midwives. ...all of whom would 
have two invonvenient corpses on their hands, and be charged with 
being accessories before, during and after the fact of 
a) gross negligence 
b) practicing medicine without a license 
c) maybe even manslaughter. 
0 
" 
| 
ae 
\\) 
Home Delivery 
Community 
HOSANNA AND HURRAH FROM THE HIGHEST 
TO THE LOW ON A SUCCESSFUL BIRTH 
At eleven minutes before eight this morning, 
Nadine gave birth to a fine healthy pink skinned 
daughter. 
Page had stepped out of the cabin for a moment. 
Contractions were steady and fierce, but with 
Nadine directing the energy, the baby moved 
swiftly down the birth canal, through the cervix, 
and appeared at the “‘door.”’ 
Babbs, on hand for the occasion, broke the 
membrane with his finger, allowing the juices 
to flow freely and the head to push through. 
By this time Page had reappeared. 
In fact he was there for the whole thing, Nadine 
having the presence of mind to send Bukovich 
looking. 
“Piped right up, didn’t he,” said the proud father. 
“Yep.”’ squalled like a baby. 
Cassie assisted with back rubs, wet cotton balls to 
the lips, and solid reassurance. 
Gretch provided swabs, blankets, tie ties for the 
cord, scissors, and kotex from Nadine’s well 
prepared stash. 
At a finely timed moment, Buko came back with 
hot tea for all participants. 
At press time the Farmsters are gathering around 
the breakfast table, the afterbirth blazing merrily 
in the fire-place on the patio. 
“That don’t give up easily.”” says Page. 
“Emergency, Says Craig. This cups broken.” 
Oh, brother, would you ever have your troubles. Not to speak of 
me and my baby— although our troubles might be strictly between 
us and the Keepers of the Gate to the next world! 
I wonder how often it’s happened that a bungled childbirth has 
destroyed a workable commune? Once would be too often. 
So have your babies at home if you must, but for the love of God, 
send the girl to the local clinic for (1) 
prenatal care— 
the doctor 
will warn her if she’s likely to have trouble. And even then it may 
come unexpectedly, as in my case, since I had NOT been so warned. 
Send her STRAIGHT TO A HOSPITAL if she (1) bleeds, (2) has a 
history of swollen ankles or any signs of toxemia impending as in 
the Merck Manual, or (3) if her first baby has been over seven 
pounds or if there is more than six or eight ounces increase between 
her first and second babies; that means the third may be enormous. 
This happens in pre-diabetic women who have no other symptoms. 
And finally (4}-keep a telephone line open all the time she is in 
labor, so that if she manifests any trouble you can get hold of a 
doctor within minutes, preferably an ambulance. 
One birth in ten shows complications; one baby IN FOUR shows 
a birth defect— which can be aggravated if birth is hard or pro- 
longed. Unattended births show the most serious oxygen starvation/ 
anoxia-brain-injury which leads to mental retardation. And three 
births in a hundred are so complicated that without EXPERT 
medical help you may have a death on your hands, without warning. 
Don’t say “It can’t happen to you.” I said it couldn’t happen to 
me— but ifI’d stuck to it and fled to the hills to escape that de- 
humanizing hospital I'd be dead, or at best seriously damaged with 
a dead child, or brain-injured baby to raise. Have you ever seena 
badly brain-injured child? 
Visit your local hospital for the feeble- 
minded some day. Most so-called “idiots” and “‘imbeciles” are 
victims of brain injury. 
I dislike many, many of the fruits of civilization. But modern 
obstetrics is one I’d sooner not dispense with. 
Sure, having a baby is natural. So is dying in childbirth. 
Look in 
any medieval graveyard. Most men went through a few wives that 
way. 
Love to you all, 
Marion Zimmer Bradley (Breen) 
Staten Island, New York 
The New Childbirth 
Erna Wright 
1964, ... 1968; 246 pp. 
Birth at Home: The Precise Considerations 
Many situations in medicine involve attempts to balance 
the costs and benefits of one possible course of action or 
inaction against the costs and benefits of another possibility, 
and to choose the alternative with the lowest cost/benefit 
ratio. Unfortunately medicine has often ignored psychosocial 
benefits to the patient and over-emphasized personal benefits 
and convenience to the doctor. Child-bearing is one such 
situation: the psychic benefits to the whole family of being 
present at the birth of a new child has largely been ignored, 
while the convenience to nurses, anesthetists and doctors has 
been over-emphasized. One.result of this has been the 
“backlash”’ of interest in home deliveries, usually without 
the doctors approval, much less with his help. Without 
attempting to assess the psychic value or reduced economic 
cost of home deliveries, | would like to clarify some of the 
risk variables involved. 
In the best of situations, it can be expected that about 
3 to 4% of deliveries will result in either a stillbirth or a 
child who dies during the first week of life. This figure can 
result in optimism—over 95% of women will have few 
problems—or pessimism—nearly one in twenty 
women will have prenatal death no matter how good their 
care. 
Because of this situation, such generalized statistics are 
worthless to the woman thinking of having her baby at home. 
Adding to the confusion is the knowledge that British and 
Dutch women routinely have their babies at home with 
apparent success judging by their lower overall infant 
mortality than ours. Their success however is dependent on 
the statistical knowledge of which situations are likely to 
be complicated—necessitating hospitalization and specialist 
care—and which are very likely to be uncomplicated—nec- 
essitating only routine measures available to a midwife in 
the home. 
Steward Clifford, a leading expert on high-risk pregnancy, 
states: ‘‘it should be emphasized that in every case the 
identification 
of the high risk patient should be possible 
at the initial examination and at various times in the pre- 
natal course and before labor and delivery.” What are these 
risk factors and how can they be recognized? 
First there are demographic factors. Women over forty or 
first pregnancies over 35 are more risky than average. Low 
education levels and low income are also high risk factors, 
even when good medical care is obtained. 
Next is prior obstetric history: first births are higher risks 
as are fourth or greater. Infant mortality is high for patients 
with a previous abortion or ectopic (out of the womb) 
pregnancy; it is even higher if there is a history of previous 
premature births (weighing less than 5%2Ibs.),and higher 
still for those women with a previous history of stillbirths 
or neonatal deaths. A history of a large baby (greater than 
nine pounds) or a baby requiring transfusion is also a danger 
signal. Prior high 
blood 
pressure, marked swelling of 
hands and ankles, or protein in the urine during a previous 
pregnancy are further cautions. 
Any woman with heart disease, diabetes (or a strong family 
history of diabetes) or any kidney disease should be followed 
closely by 
adoctor 
throughout pregnancy and delivery. 
During the pregnancy there are also warning signs which 
preclude home delivery. Without attempting to explain the 
disease entities involved, suffice it to say that any vaginal 
bleeding after the first month of pregnancy (except very 
slight spotting or ‘‘show” at the beginning of labor) or any 
report of high blood pressure is sufficient to necessitate 
specialist care. 
As delivery approaches there are more clues, including 
rupture of the bag of waters before the onset of vigorous 
labor; labor beginning before the thirty-eighth 
or after the 
forty-second week of pregnancy (counting from the first 
day of the last menstrual period). If nothing has gone 
wrong up to the onset of labor, but labor has progressed 
for eight hours without births being imimanent, this is 
another indication to rush to the hospital. 
In summary, 
if you are between twenty and thirty years 
of age, a high school graduate with a fair income and good 
nutrition, with one or two but not more than three previous 
uncomplicated births, and no medical problems, you might 
begin to consider home delivery as an acceptable risk. 
Y our first step toward success is to have adequate prenatal 
care (mortality is much higher for women without prenatal 
care, mainly because of avoidable complications) beginning 
no later than the third month of pregnancy. You will still 
not be completely safe from unexpected complications, but 
you will have reduced the risk 
to proportions where the 
benefits to you and your family from home delivery may- 
for some families—be great enough to make these risks 
acceptable. But to fail to reduce the risks through prenatal 
care or to ignore any danger signal is to not only invite 
disaster, but also to bear the responsibility of knowing you 
didn’t do all you could to avoid the disaster. 
Bruce Ferguson, 
M.D. 
