All the anes tal ‘economic Diciples are in this text book. 
It is just the thing for ani yone who wants a basic familiarity 
with the subject. No previous knowledge of economics or 
any 
other social science or math is required, | got through. 
an economics major in college-relying almost solely on this 
book. 
[Suggested and-reviewed by 
Dave Shapira] 
sanueson ECONOMICS 
Economics 
Paul A. Samuelson 
1955; 1970; 868 pp. 
$1 0.95 postpaid 
from: 
‘McGraw-Hill Book Company 
330 W. 42nd St. 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A good final warning in economics is this: things are often not what 
at first they seem. The following true statements provide examples: 
4; 
If all farmers work hard and nature cooperates in producing 
a bumper crop, total farm income may fa//, and probably wilt. 
2. 
One man may solve his own unemployment problem by great 
ingenuity in hunting a job or by:a willingness to work for less; but 
al/ cannot necessarily solve their problems in this way. 
3: 
Higher prices for one industry may benefit its firms; but if 
the prices of everything bought and sold increased in the same 
proportion, no one would be better off. 
4, 
It may pay the United States to reduce tariffs charged on 
goods imported, even if other countries refuse to do likewise. 
6, 
It may pay a firm to take on some business at much /ess than 
full costs. 
6. 
Attempts of individuals to save more in depression may /essen 
the tota/ of the community’s savings. 
if 
What is prudent behavior for an individual may at times be 
folly for a nation. 
Let us emphasize: 
Each of the above statements is true; but each is 
outwardly paradoxical. 
In the course of this book, the seeming 
paradoxes will be resolved. There are no magic formulas or 
hidden tricks. 
It is typical of economics that anything which 
is 
really correct must seem perfectly reasonable once the argument 
is carefully developed. 
At this point it is just as. well to note that-many BF the above 
paradoxes hinge upon a single confusion or fallacy. 
It is called by 
logicians the ‘fallacy of composition.’’ 
In books on logic, this is 
defined as follows: 
Fallacy of composition: 
a fallacy'in which what is true of a part 
is, on that account alone, alleged to be also:necessarily true of the 
whole. 
Why study economics, is a famous one given by Lord Keynes. The 
final lines of his 1936 classic, The General Theory of Employment, 
Interest and Money, consist of a famous passage: 
The ideas of economists and political philosophers, both when 
they are right and when they are wrong, are more powerful than 
is commonly understood. Indeed the world:is ruled by little 
else. Practical men, who believe themselves to be quite exempt 
from any intellectual influences, are usually the slaves of some defunct 
economist. Madmen in authority, who hear voices in the air, are 
distilling their frenzy from some academic scribbler of a few years 
back. 
| am sure that the power of vested interests is vastly ex- 
aggerated compared with the gradual encroachment of ideas. 
Unless proper macroeconomic policies are pursued, a laissez faire 
economy cannot guarantee that there will be exactly the required 
amount of investment to ensure full employment: 
not too little 
sO as to cause unemployment, nor too much so as to cause inflation. 
As far as total investment or money-spending power is concerned, 
the laissez faire system is without a good thermostat. 
Limitation in the supply of money is the necessary condition if it is 
to have value. 
If currency is so unlimited in amount as to become 
practically a free good, people would have so much of it to spend 
as to bid up all prices, wages, and income sky-high. That is why 
constitutional powers over money and banking are never given to 
private groups, but are always vested in government. 
Many writers have tried to read into economic history a linear 
progression through inevitable stages, such as primitive economy, 
feudalism, capitalism, and some form of communism. The actual 
facts have not agreeably stuck to such timetables; in particular, 
the mixed economies that dominate the Western world came into 
being without the permission of social prophets. 
MARKET PRICE AND QUANTITY — 
-P 
d 
\ 
Surplus 
! 
S 
\ 
7 
2 
tey | 5 eS o< eis Point 
a § 
J 
o 
a} 
3) 
= @ 
Shortake 
r 
ies 
ere a 
5 
10 
« 
15 
QUANTITY (million bu. per month) 
FIG. 4-3. 
At the C equilibrium intersection, the 
amount supplied just matches the amount 
de- 
manded. 
: 
At any lower P, the excess amount demanded 
will force P back up; and at any P higher than the 
equilibrium, the amount supplied will be excessive 
and P will be forced back down to the equilibrium 
level. 
Beyond Economics 
Since so many of you dwell on the fringes of society, 
! thought you might be interested in the fringes of 
economics where Kenneth Boulding thoughtfully paces. 
Those places where economics meets religion and ethics, 
meets general systems, social science, learning theory, 
evolution, and (watch it) politics. 
—SB 
Beyond Economics 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
1968, 1970; 308 pp. 
$2 .95 postpaid 
from: 
University of Michigan Press 
615 East University 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
Csaps 
MW: avly Hebgiv ant hes 
Beyond Economics 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Similarly atoms come and go in a molecule, but the molecule 
remains, molecules come and go in a cell, but the cell remains, 
cells come and go in a body, but the body remains; persons come 
and go in an organization, but the organization remains. What 
“‘remains’’ in the midst of all this flux of components is the “‘role,”’ 
the “‘place,”’ and the relations of roles one to another. A role is 
a hole, an organization is a related and orderly set of holes, 
and one sometimes catches a fleeting and slightly night-marish 
vision of the scientific universe as a set of holes bounded and 
defined by other holes! The significance of almost anything, like 
that of a word, is derived largely from its context; everything, 
however, is the context for other things; context creates itself, 
ad infinitum. 
e 
Energy and matter can only be exchanged: knowledge can be 
produced. 
The Communist society is a ‘‘one-firm’’ state’’—that is, a society 
organized hierarchically into a single economic organization. 
It is simply General Motors (or perhaps more realistically, 
the Pentagon, which is in terms of national income the world’s 
third largest Communist society) expanded to include the whole 
economy, with the possible exception of a few Nepmen and some 
surreptitious private trade. A capitalist society by contrast is 
“ecological’’ where the Communist society is ‘‘organic."’ A 
Communist society is a true Leviathan, a vast social whale; 
a capitalist society is more like a pond with a great multitude 
of interacting organisms bound together in a system of mutual 
exchange, or markets. 
If a genuine learning process—the continual elimination of error in 
our image of the world, as well as the enlargement of this image—is 
to take place, there must be safeguards against rejecting inferences 
or rejecting the image of the past. 
what is postmonetary economy? 
fleshfeather 
Good question.—SB 
Sie 
POPU UUU ERP EOU COR OR EC 
US UU ETUC ETT 
ee 
Supply and Demand 
is Henderson’s Supply and Demand. 
Bear in mind that economists are created by economies, 
not vice versa very much. Who does create economies? 
You. If you don’t like the one you're in, invent and perform 
a better one. Do it informed or do it innocent, either one 
beats passive complaint. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
{. 
When, at the price ruling, demand exceeds supply, the 
price tends to rise. Conversely when supply exceeds 
demand the price tends to fall. 
Il. 
Arise in price tends, sooner or later, to decrease 
demand and to increase supply. Conversely a 
fall in price tends, sooner or later, to increase 
demand and to decrease supply. 
I11. 
Price tends to the level at which demand is.equal 
to supply. 
e 
It has become an axiom of business men that, while Governments 
can manage with more or less competence a safe and routine busi- 
ness like a Postal Service, their success would be unlikely to prove 
conspicuous in undertakings where the element of risk is great. 
There, it is said, we owe everything in the past to the enterprise 
of individual men (for even joint-stock companies have not been 
notable as pioneers) adventuring their own fortunes in accordance 
with their own unfettered judgment. 
apply and Demand 
rt Henderson 
no22. 142 pp. 
$1 coo postpaid 
from: 
32 E. 57th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
| said I'm going to trim you up a little. Cut your hair, shave all 
that beard off. 
You do and I'll chase you from star to star, 
e 
You can’t catch me, Emmit, D.R. laughed. I’m one of them 
crabs, I'm on the moon, too fast for you to catch. 
You'll see, said Emmit. You'll see how far your threats and 
bribes get from star to star. 
But Emmit’s eyes closed, he fell into a fifteen minute dream, 
and swiftly D.R. cut his hair, not much, just as much as he felt 
competent to do with comb and scissors. And then he cut the beard 
away. Scissors. Comb. And as he worked D.R. saw his father’s face 
take shape before him. The mouth, the little cleft in the chin. 
They'd looked so much alike, Emmit and D.R.’s father. Royce. 
Somewhere there was a picture of them together in their Army uni- 
forms, taken about 1944, home on furlough before going overseas, 
sitting on the front porch of the homeplace, their arms around each 
other and their cheeks pressed together, mugging for the camera. 
And they looked so much alike you couldn’t tell them apart except 
that Emmit had on paratroop boots and Royce didn’t. Emmit 
jumped into Holland, around Eindhoven, with the 101st Airborne, 
and got wounded there. A head wound. The scar is probably right 
down there in his hair, D.R. thought. But he had finished with the 
hair. There was just the beard now. Scissors, comb, he snipped and 
snipped, and then as Emmit slept D.R. covered his face with lather 
and carefully shaved him, stroke by stroke, pausing now and then 
to feel the smooth, clean skin as he cleared it of the stubble. 
Economics 
Communications 
' 
A briefer, more classic, and earlier account of economic theory — 
Cambridge University Press 
