ns honestly makes you wonder why we haven’‘t 
cooperatively at the wild Earth all our lives. 
her 
fight and hassle over manufactured products 
ine directly on what we can’t prevent from flourishing 
around us. Take a congenial trip with Gibbons to the 
the beach, anywhere except the parking lot, and 
you, tum and head. 
from: 
David McCay Company 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ything east of the Great Plains and north of the Florida 
sula that you can eat. It’s a technical sort of book, 
ith a sweet attitude. 
— 
—SB 
Edible Wild Plants of Eastern North America 
Merritt Lyndon Fernald, Alfred Charles Kinsey, Reed C. 
Rollins 
943, 1958; 452 pp. 
postpaid 
rper & Row Publishers, Inc. 
9 E. 33rd St. 
York, N.Y. 10016 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
‘Edi ble Native Plants of the Rocky Mountains 
. D. Harrington 
rsity of New Mexico Press 
\ibuquerque, New Mexico 87106 
9» WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Russian Thistle 
_ The young shoots make a very good potherb. Served with salt,. 
: 
yper and lemon or vinegar we found it to be mild, pleasant and 
isp tasting, making one of the very best potherbs we have ever 
ted. They can be dressed up with fried bacon and boiled eggs 
like spinach or creamed and served over toast. Because of the bland 
taste they can be mixed to an advantage with more tangy plants 
# 
as mustard. 
here is a need for a good, big, colorful book on the wild 
dible plants of the united states, north america, planet, 
_and 
so forth. so far no one has wanted to tackle the job, 
__ mainly i suppose because a book like that would be so 
expensive to produce that getting the price down for 
someone who wanted to forage for edible goodies would 
__ be tough. this book is neither colorful nor planetary, but 
if you are going to peck around some natural produce from 
1e rocky mountains west, you should be able to use it 
help you both identify and cook your meals. the 
__ line drawings are abundant, precise, carefully executed. 
cy 
oad jd 
7 
Wild Edible Plants of 
the Western United States 
Donald Kirk, Janice Kirk 
1970; 307pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Naturegraph Publishers 
Heraldsburg, Ca. 95448 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
t 
sp 
jperior cooked vegetable. 
Immediately following this comes the bright yellow. 
pollen, fine as sifted flour, which is produced in great 
@bundance. This makes an unusual and nourishing 
ingredient for some flavorful arid beautifully colored 
pancakes and muffins. From fall until spring a fine, 
nutritious white flour can be prepared from the 
central core of the rootstocks for use'as breadstuff 
or ss a-food starch. On the leading ends of these 
rootstocks are found the dormant sprouts which 
will be next year’s cattails. These can be.eaten either 
a8 8 salad or as a cooked vegetable. At the junction 
of these sprouts and the rootstock there is an enlarged 
starchy core the size of a finger joint. These can be 
roasted, boiled or cooked with meat. In the spring, 
the young shoots can be yanked from the ground and 
Peeled, leaving a tender white part from six to twelve 
inches long which can be eaten raw or cooked. 
CATTAIL 
COLD DRINKS 
In this group are included the various home-brewed drinks such as 
birch-beer, and the simple summer drinks prepared from acid fruits 
and used like lemonade. We have not entered the very extensive 
field of distilled liquors, and there are some people who might object 
to indication of the ingredients of birch-beer, root-beer and other 
mildly alcoholic beverages, but no one can object to pink lemonade 
prepared by bruising Sumach-berries in water or from the juice of 
Prickly-Pears or Barberries. The number of these refreshing cold 
drinks is larger than we should have imagined; they may be pre- 
pared from the following: 
Spruce (for beer), p. 80 
Hemlock (for beer), p. 80 
Sandbur (grain), p. 107 
Chufa (tubers), p. 108 
Cat-brier (roots), p. 142 
Birch (for beer), p. 153 
May-Apples, p. 206 
Barberries, p. 208 
Mountain-Ash (berries), p. 230 
Raspberries, p. 236 
Dewberries, p. 236 
Blackberries, p. 236 
Cherries, p. 240 
Honey-Locust (pods in 
beer), p. 243 
Locust (flowers), p. 248 
Crowberries, p. 261 
Sumach (berries), p. 262 
Red or Black Mulberries, p 163 
Mountain-Sorrel (leaves), p. 169 
Sorrel (leaves, p. 171 
Sea-Purslane, p. 189 
Maple (sap), p. 269 
Grapes, p. 272 
Prickly-Pears, p. 276 
Soapberries, p. 277 
Buffalo-berries, p. 277 
Spikenard (root), p. 282 
Wild Sarsaparilla (root), p. 283 
Pipsissewa (leaves), p. 305 
Bog-Cranberries, p. 317 
Persimmons, p. 321 
Yellow Bedstraw, p. 344 
Elderberries, p. 349 
Edible Native Plants of the Rocky Mountains 
This book is an excellent listing of the edible plants of the 
Rockies. 
It provides recipes for the preparation. of beers 
and wines, jams and preserves, the cooking of greens and 
the preparation of dyes, as well as brief histories of the 
plants’ use by historic and prehistoric peoples. The book 
contains drawings of the plants in their flowering or fruit- 
ing stage and lists them by common name as well as 
scientific name for ready reference. 
For anyone seriously considering living off the land, trying 
his hand at new and exciting dishes or cutting down on 
yaakt! 
| ig? 
Ne Ws 
Yes 
i 
1) 
x 
uy 
lens) 
Green Sea Urchin. 
You must develop skills in finding these perfect and formerly 
unused campgrounds. One way to do it is to get off the beaten 
track. Study the map and find a small road that leads off the one 
you are following, then a smaller road that leads off of it, and 
finally a still smaller road trailing off that. On this last little road 
one is almost certain to find an ideal camping spot where permission 
is either not required or easily obtained. 
| don't guarantee to make the shelling of black walnuts easy, but | 
have found that it gets progressively easier with practice. 
If you 
stand the nut pointed end up on a solid surface and hit it a sharp 
blow with a hammer, it will crack into two halves. Stand each 
half, again pointed end up, and strike it again, and you will have 
broken it into quarters. Strike each quarter again on the pointed 
end, and it will break crosswise into eighths this time——at which 
point the nutmeats will fall out. 
Fro, 60, May-Arrux 
Tragopogon species (4) (Sunflower Family) 
Goatsbeard, Salsify, Oyster Plant 
Preparation and Uses: The fleshy roots may be 
eaten iaw or cooked, tasting like oysters or parsnips, 
according to whom you are speaking. When only a 
few inches high the young stems, along with the 
bases of the lower leaves may be used as putherbs. 
The coagulated milky juice of these introduced 
plants was used for chewing by various Indian 
groups. 
The juice was considered a remedy for 
indigestion. 
In olden times in Greece, Italy, and 
other Old World areas linen pads were soaked in 
the distilled juice and applied to bleeding sores and 
wounds. 
Pliny records that the juice, when mixed 
with woman’s milk, is a cure-all for disorders of the 
eyes. 
T. porrifolius is the cultivated Salsify or 
Oyster Plant. 
Habitat and Distribution: 
The Goatsbeards are 
found in open ground throughout the West. 
Description: 
These plants are tall, stout, bien- 
nial or perennial herbs with fleshy tap-roots, and 
entire, grasslike, clasping leaves. 
The yellow or 
purple flower heads are borne on tall, leafy stems: 
the matured head resembling a fluffy, giant, dande- 
lion head. 
Sane 
