———_- 
————_ 
= 
— 
Guide to Correspondence Study 
handy guide to courses 
given out through the 
mail by colleges in this 
country. for instance, 
the university of nebraska 
will give you arc welding, 
automotive mechanics, 
beginning woodwork, 
drawing and drafting, 
home mechanics, 
photography, 
plumbing, 
and roof framing, 
as well as the standard rot 
like genetics and heredity. 
—jd 
[Suggested by Emmanuel Appel] 
Directory of Accredited Private Home 
Study Schools 
Care to study up on diamond-cutting at home? Electronic 
organ repair? Truck maintenance? Paper making? Penman- 
ship? Radio? Tractor repair? Calculus? Welding? Concrete 
engineering? Sign lettering? Plastics? This amazing catalog 
lists all the subjects available and what schools carry them 
and where to write the school. From here on, we need your 
evaluation: are these correspondence courses worth it? How 
much do they cost? Who’s best for quality or low-cost? 
SB 
[Suggested by D. Mayerson] iF 
Directory of Accredited Private 
Home Study Schools 
free 
from: 
National Home Study Council 
1601 Eighteenth Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20009 
Catalog 
Used Correspondence 
Courses 
free 
from: 
now this is a real recycle 
Lee Mountain 
notion, 
: 
‘ 
Used Correspondence Courses 
jobbers in used instructional 
Pisgah, Alabama 35765 
materials. 
Foundry Practices, 
1.C.S. 
Foundry Work and Tool Making, American School .... . 
Foot Culture, Stephenson 
Laboratory 
Arch Suppott Making and Foot Culture Course 
Foot 
Culture, 
Lincoln 
Institute 
: 
4 
Practipedics, American School of Practipedics 
Poultry Farming, National Poultry Institute 
Poultry Book 
Poultry 
Management 
Railroad 
Signaling, 
I.C.S 
Brakeman’s 
Instruction, 
Railway 
Educational 
Association 
Fireman’s 
Instruction, Railway Educational 
Association. . 
Airbrake 
Course, 
I.C.S. 
Steam 
Locomotive, 
I.C.S.. 
Locomotive Engineering, 
Railway Station Work, Railway Service Bureau. 
Sleeping Car and Train Porter........... 
ee ey 
Railroad 
Correspondence 
Elementary 
Gunsmithing, 
Railroad 
Rates Course, LCs- 
Baker 
GUIDE TO 
CORRESPONDENCE 
STUDY 
Guide to Correspondence Study in 
Colleges and Universities 1970 
free 
from: 
University of California Extension Service 
2223 Fulton Street 
Berkeley, California 94720 
Correspondence Schools 
You asked for comments on correspondence schools in relation to 
a suggestion in your spring issue, and | happen to have a few. | 
worked with a reporter gathering information for a story on the 
subject, and the results were depressing. (The story appeared in the 
New York Times on May 31, 1970.) 
The catalog suggestion was to write the National Home Study Coun- 
cil for information about courses. If someone is bent on taking a 
correspondence course, the Council is the best source of informa- 
tion for halfway reputable schools, because the Council is the only 
nationally recognized agency in the field. It has established mini- 
mum standards for business and educational operations and is sup- 
posedly held, by Federal law, to the same standards as the agencies 
which issue accreditation to resident-type schools and colleges. 
However, this does not hold up for there is little regulation by the 
states or the Federal government. Last fall, for example, the accred- 
iting commission of the Council examined 6 Crowell-Collier insti- 
tutions (remember your friendly Collier's Encyclopedia salesman?) 
and withdrew their accreditation. The major Crowell-Collier school 
is LaSalle Extension University of Chicago, and without its accredi- 
tation, the State of Illinois was required by Federal law to change 
its status. Among other things, this would have made LaSalle ineligi- 
ble for any funds from any of the G.I. and Veterans education bills. 
But nothing was done. (An unknown 
number of LaSalle executives 
purchased tickets to a $100-a-plate political dinner for the Super- 
intendent of Public Instruction for the State of IIlinois.) Crowell- 
Collier also filed an anti-trust suit against the Council. Having no 
funds for a court fight and no encouragement 
from any of the 
Federal agencies, the Council accepted the Crowell-Collier settle- 
ment out of court, reaccrediting LaSalle and the other schools. 
FOR BUSI 
fos 
| 
STU DY we tench BESS 
~ 
keeping,Business Forms, Pen- 
rar 
oN 
manship, Com’! Law, Letter 
Writing, Arithmetic, Short- 
< 
- 
, 
al 
hand, ete.thoroughly by MAIL at 
/ your own HOME, Success guar- 
anteed every earnest student. 
We give a useful,MoneyMaking 
Education which leads to agg# 
good paying position. 
A ten 
BAlyears’ success. 
Highly en-¥ 
- dorsed. It will pay 
you. Try 
it.Catalog free. 
RYA 
—| 
Trial lesson 100 C-225 Coll 
So, although the National Home Study Council has set standards, 
it has no way to enforce them, thus leaving the question of quality 
up to the individual schools. Two schools which have maintained 
high standards are the advanced Trade School and the American 
School, both in Chicago and both offering a wide range of courses. 
These two schools run credit checks on applicants, administer 
valid admissions tests, actually turning away those who fail, and pay 
their salesmen a salary rather than a commission based on how many 
people they sign up. 
Many schools don’t have admissions tests, and those that do often 
make the tests ridiculously easy to pass. Many of the schools pay 
no attention to the results of their tests anyway. In other words, 
for many courses, if you can sign on the dotted line and make the 
down payment, you've met all the necessary requirements. 
Many of the courses are very over-priced for what is provided. 
Private correspondence schools charge from less than $100 to 
more than $2500 and the average course costs between $300 and 
$600. 
In many places, there are less expensive alternatives available to 
home study courses. Many universities, colleges, local government 
adult education programs, churches, YM and YWCAs, civic groups, 
etc., offer courses in a wide variety of subjects to the general public, 
usually for nominal fees and/or the cost of any materials. For 
instance, if you live in New York, check the Photography Page in the 
Modern 
Gunsmithing, 
Cleveland Institute of Electronics, 
1776 East 17th Street, Cleveland, 
Ohio 44114. Founded 1934. 
Electronics Technology; Electronics 
Technology with Laboratory; Broadcast Engineering; First-Class FCC 
License; Electronic Communications (including 2nd Class FCC 
License); Carrier Telephony; Electronics Engineering; Electronic 
Slide Rule and Operation; Industrial Electronics and Automation. 
Coast Navigation School, 418 East Canon Perdido, Santa Barbara, 
California 93101. Founded 1966. Courses in Air navigation; Coast- 
wise navigation and piloting; Celestial navigation; Celestial air navi- 
gation; and the Elements of boathandling, seamanship, and sailing. 
Penn State Correspondence School 
Penn State is Number One, at least in correspondence courses that 
have relevance to agriculture. 
Cornell University recommended 
them to me and am | glad. All the courses have ‘’x’’ pages of 
written material followed by a “test” that is ‘graded’ by someone 
in State College (if you desire) and returned. 
Naturally, with so 
many courses, the quality is varied. 
I've read maybe two dozen of 
them. They are extremely valuable in areas where the reader has 
absolutely no knowledge. The Penn State introduction obtained 
with no small degree of authority enables one to more intelligently 
choose more advanced material (which is not always necessary) 
without waste of too much time and money in shotgun searches 
through libraries and/or bookstores. 
| recommend particularly their 
survey on Poultry Keeping. 
from: 
Catalog 
Correspondence Courses 
free 
The Pennsylvania State University 
202 Agricultural Education Building 
University Park, PA 16802 
Entertainment Section of the Sunday New York Jimes for locations, 
dates, and costs of beginning and advanced courses in photography. 
Your local U.S. Department of Agriculture extension office makes 
available a great amount of information and demonstrations on 
farming. Check with local companies in your field of interest; many 
run their own training programs. | also know of people who have 
actually apprentised themselves to local craftsmen, one to a 
harpsichord maker, the other to a cabinetmaker. 
It is much easier to check the reputations of courses offered locally, 
but if nothing is available then write the National Home Study 
Council for a list of schools offering the course you want. Send away 
to all the schools suggested, and from the ensuing, and never-ending 
deluge of promotional mail, pick the one which seems to be the 
most reputable and seems to offer the exact course or training that 
you want. 
Finally, should you sign up for a course and then find out that it 
isn’t what it was advertised to be, send your letter of resignation 
by registered mail. 
However, if you want to get rich quick, which is the result promised 
by most of these schools, and you have no scruples about ripping off 
unsuspecting poor people, instead of taking a correspondence 
course, | suggest you try selling one. All you need do is follow the 
advice which a Dr. Richard S. Frazer gave to members of the Asso- 
ciation of Home Study Schools. Dr. Frazer was head of the now- 
defunct Christy Trade School in Chicago and he received his doc- 
toral degree from something called the ‘‘Neotarian College.” 
Dr. Frazer's suggestions: Immediately offer courses in 200 subjects 
and decide on public response 
to an advertising campaign which 
of the 200 is the most likely best-seller, and provide that one. 
Select a textbook on the subject and order a gross from the pub- 
lisher, then have a bookbinder split these books into 20-page units 
of lessons (new covers should be designed, taking care to leave space 
for stamping on the title and number of each “lesson’’). For your 
Promotional campaign, Dr. Frazer recommends, for example, per- 
fumed mailings and the use of “gadgets, gimmicks, premiums, 
giveaways, and special formats.” Then when your sales begin to level 
off, begin preparation of your second course. 
A quick look at the advertising layouts and promotional materials 
of most of the correspondence schools would lead anyone to 
believe that large numbers of them are doing exactly what Dr. 
Frazer suggests. And many of them go even further—they hire 
salesmen who are inadequately trained and paid only a commission 
based on their sales, with no 
reimbursement for expenses. In order 
to make sales, these men, whether instructed by their employers 
or not, misrepresent the courses they sell in many’ 
ways. In other 
words, they tell outright lies in their presentations. (The salesman 
from LaSalle who called on me informed 
me, when | told him | 
worked for the New York Times 
, that ‘alot of the top men there 
got most of their training at LaSalle. | know of one—I can’t recall 
his name right off—who got all of his training through LaSalle.” Ha.) 
| could relate other examples of misrepresentation by salesmen, if 
you want, but | doubt you have room to run this letter as it is. You 
may use what | have said here any way you can. | hope | have been 
of some help. 
Sincerely, 
Adrianne Burk 
Washington, D.C. 
(Suggested and reviewed by John E. Schultz] 
when you've finished with 
poultry management, 
and want to /earn insect 
science, just 
get in touch with one of 
these fellows 
and swap with him. good 
bunch of technical 
books too. 
~ 
at 
pe 
FY 
DAVVOAOAPAON 
5 
ONSNOUA 
jd 
[Suggested by Jim Toms] 
- 
LCG 
ook eect 
Pile, 
ote sites ts patria 
Frazer 
enrare 
REVSsssssssauss 
sooosous 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Smith Instruction Exchange 
124 Marlborough Road 
Salem, Massachusetts 01970 
Operation, Care, Repair Farm Machinery 
1.55 
Motor’s Auto Repair Manual 
(1962) 
7.50 
Fordomatice 
- Mercomatic Transmission 
.. 
1.85 
Diesel Engines......... McGraw - Hill 1.30" 
Illustrated Course Horse Training 
. 
. Beery 7.75 
‘ 
[low to Ride and Train the Western Horse 
6.50 
Saddle [lorse Instructions. 
. 
. 
. Prof. Beery 4.50 
Diseases of the Horse. 
. 
. Dept. Agriculiure 1.40 
Complete Book of Horses & Horsemanship 
1.90 
‘Teaching the Young to lide 
M. Self 1.50 
Saddlery : Iquipment Horse & Stable... 
2.75 
Sportsman Guide fiurseback Riding 
. 
Wall 1.70 
Colt and tlorse Sense 
(2 Books) Bob Carson 2.75 
Out of West; New Horsemanship L. Taylor 4.70 
Complete Book of the Quarter Horse 
. Nye 5.60 
Schooling of the Western tiorse. 
J. Young 3.80 
Hackamore Reinsman.... 
. . Ed Connell 1.60 
The ltorseman’s Encyclopedia. 
. 
. 
AZ. Self 4.20 
The Horse ; Judging, Hreeding, Feeding 
Management and Selling 
. 
D. Kays 6.50 
Quarter forse Breeder. 
. 
M. Lindeman 4.50 
How to Buy a Healthy Horse and Keep 
Uim That Way...... 
Farmer's Digest 5.90 
ae 
(> 
as 
ef 
Nail hammer whap whap nail. 
Set it and hit it, drive it whap hit it home and nail that board to 
the post. 
Set it in here David. Throw in some rock, fill it and tamp it, 
hold on now, let's get ‘er straight. Reach me the level there and 
we'll line this baby up. There. Tamp it down, hand me the end of 
that one-by-six and you take the yon. 
Nail. Hammer whap whap and nail. Nail it in and drive it home. 
This one’s warped, David, hold on, let’s not get ahead of ourselves. 
Got your's nailed? Hit it. 
Nail. Hammer, whap. Nail, whap, set, whap, hit it and drive it, 
drive it and pound it 
and 
Leonard bears his weight down on the loose end till the warp 
comes out and says drive it in now son, set it and hit it, that’s right, 
we'll teach this wood to bow. 
One time David | was carpentering with this old one-armed boy 
over in Owsley County. 
Fellow by the name of Calhoun. 
Building 
a school up there, back before the war. 
Id tried mining and didn’t 
like that, so my daddy said why don’t you go up to Owsley County 
and help ‘em build that school. The boss of that job was a friend of 
my daddy's and he took me on. He said | could work a week and if 
| could drive nails faster than this Calhoun he'd let me stay on. So 
we worked. Side by side with old Calhoun. Him with just one arm, 
| figured surely | could out-work a one-armed man. But you ought 
to of seen him, David. He'd set nails this way: 
hold the head be- 
tween his two fingers like this, you see, brace the head against the 
flat of his hammer, go stick like that and set that nail in the wood 
just pretty as you please. Then he'd rare back with that hammer in 
that one good hand of his and go whap and about two whaps later 
that nail’d be out of sight. Drive a sixteen penny nail in three licks 
when he wanted to. 
| couldn't keep up with him with two hands. 
Nobody on that job could. 
But the old foreman let me stay on anyhow. 
Whap! Nail. Set. Hammer. Whap. 
Sweat. 
Sweat all down his neck and off his ears and in his eyes. 
Get us another locust post and I'll deepen this next hole a little. 
Fill it. Tamp it down. That's right, stomp it right in there good. 
She level? Read it right, now, we want this fence preee-cise, look- 
ing too good to mess it up now. You finish here David and I'll go 
get us another one-by-six. 
NAILS 
Correspondence Schools 
Learning 
