f 
a whole section of books on design in the 
neering Library at Stanford, this book looked far the 
_ Recently Steve Baer (dome and solar designer) came 
‘ 
t on our editing tables, sat down and paged, then 
) and hurriedly wrote a letter to a friend about the 
1k 
and its author. 
| asked Steve to pick out some use- 
quotes and pictures and he wouldn't. 
“Look anywhere 
“open it,” he advised, then ordered a copy. 
tents of the book include: 
The Engineering Problem 
. 
ation, Design Project Organization, Information and 
the Need Analysis, Identification of the Problems, Infor- 
ation Sources, Synthesis of Alternatives, Estimation and 
Order-of-Magnitude Analysis, Engineering and Money, 
liminary Design, Engineering Problem Modeling, The 
Iconic Model, Conceptual Representation, Expansion of 
_ the Criterion Function, Checking in Engineering Design, 
Optimization, etc., etc. 
—SB 
Introduction to Engineering 
Desi 
Thomas T. ary 
- 
= 
1966; 434 pp. 
$11.50 postpaid 
F 
from: 
- 
McGraw-Hill Book Company 
Princeton Road 
% 
Hightstown, N.J. 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Missouri 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, Calif. 94947 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
PRODUCTION 
RAW 
MATERIAL 
INFORMATION 
RECOVERY 
DISTRIBUTION 
CONSUMPTION 
* DESIGN 
is a part of 
PLANNING 
+ PLANNING 
is a part of PRODUCTION 
| 
4 
Fig.3.7 
The production-consumption cycle, 
» 
showing the place of engineering design. 
h : 
Technology and Change 
Hes Us fiasco 
Sap tiga 
OM fev, 
Fig. 6.2 
A sketch that changed automobile 
ignition. (Courtesy General Motors Corp.) 
A natural supply point is 100 
ft away u 
other things a clean, 
As we think about this, we discard the open channel in the ground 
as too easily contaminated. 
The pipe could be laid on the ground; 
and the wood flumes could be suspended from tree trunks and 
Possibly covered as shown by the dashed “board” in the illustration. 
Thus, we have two reasonable ways of doing this job; the questions 
now concern cost and convenience. 
Next we check the sizes needed. 
If we wanted the 50-gal. tank 
filled in 15 min, we would need a flow of about 4 gal/min. This is 
a stream of water about as big as a person’s finger when the water 
is flowing two feet per second, as shown by the equation in the 
footnotet deriving the cross-sectional area, A, of the stream. 
This area would require a pipe one inch in diameter. 
If we were 
using the wood “vee” channels, we would need two boards each 
about three inches wide to avoid splashing over, or one-half board- 
foot per running foot of channel (per foot of channel length). (A 
board-foot is one square foot of wood, one inch or less thick.) 
Now we need to arrive at costs. 
The most convenient reference is 
a broad-coverage catalog (such as that of Sears, Roebuck), in which 
wood, metal, and other supplies can be found listed at retail prices. 
Of course, one can also phone the retail plumbing or lumber suppliers. 
In any case, we find 
Wood: 
15¢—20¢ / board-foot in the sizes we need 
1 in. iron pipe: 
30¢ / ft 
% in. copper pipe: 
58¢ /ft (One size smaller than iron pipe 
for the same flow rate.) 
Assuming one-half board-foot for each running foot of wood 
channel, the comparisons are 
Wood: 
10¢ /running foot, materials only 
Iron: 
30¢ /running foot, materials only 
Copper: 
60¢ /running foot, materials only 
Since we would do the work ourselves, the cost of labor is 
disregarded, and it seems that wood should be our choice. On 
one final check though, we ask whether these are all the choices. 
Someone suggests plastic pipe, so we look that up: It is corrosion- 
resistant, flexible, easily connected, sanitary; it has a smooth interior; 
it could be in one piece and simply laid on the ground. 
It seems to 
be a natural choice. The price of %-in. diameter plastic pipe is 10¢ /ft; 
1-in. diameter is 16¢/ft. Considering the labor needed with wood or 
iron pipe, or the cost of copper tubing, and the plastic’s sanitary 
advantages, the plastic pipe (high-density polyethylene) is certainly 
the preferred choice. 
Thus our final estimate is the use of this plastic tubing, 
probably 
%-in. 
diameter at 10¢ /ft. 
ig, P 
ly %-in 
tA=Q/V 
(area = flow/velocity) 
where 
i 
Q = 4 gal/min = 1000 cu in./min 
(1 gal - 231 cu in.) 
V = 2 ft/sec = 24 in./(1/60 min) = 1500 in./min 
A = 1000 cu in./min 
in./min 
Oly, 
Fig. 7.4 
Possible water channel sections. 
Water supply project for mountain cabin. 
= 2/3 sq. in. 
: 
im 
The subtitle.of this book is “The impact of invention and 
innovation on American social and economic development” 
The author studies this area in the light of experience in 
several industries, one of which is the building industry, 
where change has been slow in coming. 
This book will be 
of interest to its intended readership in industry. But ona 
larger scale, it offers an answer to that teeth-gnashing 
question: “Why does the ‘establishment’ resist change?” 
Or for that matter, “Why does everybody resist change?” 
This is one of the neatest and best explanations I’ve seen 
(perhaps because it so closely matches my experiences as 
a Professional Designer). 
/t will be interesting for those who 
wish to better know their Corporation As An Enemy 
as 
well as to those who wish to equip themselves and their 
organization to better deal with inevitable and intentional 
change. One of his more interesting points is that “revolu- 
tionaries” are often a reactionary force instead of being 
truly revolutionary; they are the conservatives, especially 
where technological change is concerned. Lots of subver- 
sive stuff here. Recommended reading for changebringers. 
[Reviewed by Jay Baldwin. 
Suggested by Steve Baer] 
Technology 
and Change 
Donald A. 
Schon 
1967; 248 pp. 
122 
$2.25 postpaid 
from: 
Delta Publishing Co., Inc. 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Engineering 
Industry 
The crucial form of experiment demanded by the technotogical, 
institutional and normative changes of our time is experiment in 
norms and objectives. The erosion of the objectives of the Techno- 
logical Program leaves us with more information than we can handle 
and requires the attempt to create situations in which new objectives 
can emerge. 
Unexpected success is no less destructive of the rational view of 
corporate activity than is unexpected failure. When the addition 
of carbon black turns out to increase the strength of rubber; when 
the book-mending tape turns out to have a multiplicity of unex- 
pected consumer uses; when the new plastic, designed for a cheaper 
molding process, turns out to perform well in a completely dif- 
ferent application——the corporate manager can only react with a 
wry smile. 
In ways he did not understand, and was unable to 
state before the fact, things have gone well; but what has he 
learned that will prepare him to cope with the next time? 
Corporate behavior is based on regular, orderly, linear, predictable 
processes——the extension of the industrial manufacturing process 
itself. How is it to absorb invention? 
What used to be stable divisions in our community are no longer 
stable: 
—the division between education and work, and with it, the view 
of the young as learning and the old as established; 
—the division between labor and business; 
—the old regionalism; 
—the old divisions between race and race and class and class; 
—the division between the change-oriented outcasts (inventor, poet, 
therapist) and the stable society; 
—the division between ‘‘good”’ creative private enterprise and ‘‘evil” 
controlling Government. 
The call to Revolt has as much appeal as the call to Return. 
It is an 
alternate response to the destruction of the myth of stability. 
In 
effect, it says that the old objectives are hollow and inadequate. 
There is oppression, slavery, humiliation, constraint and injustice. 
There is no Promised Land in sight. Revolt against these things! 
The call to revolt need not produce its own image of a Promised 
Land. 
It takes its image from the present against which it reacts. 
It gets its concreteness from the life it refuses to accept and is, in 
this sense, a form of conservatism. 
|f we cannot be inattentive to change of objectives in our society 
and cannot accept the silent calls of return and revolt, what is left? 
How do we ever tolerate and stand up to change in objectives? 
