Genuine CANADIAN HONKERS 
THE PRIDE AND JOY OF SPORTSMEN 
You and your friends will be thrilled to see a pair or more of these dignified Canadian 
onkers about your country place. They are also a challenge to the devoted and dedicated 
waterfowl raiser. Mating is by pairs only—their choice of mates is a very serious matter 
with them. While they mate for life, should one die there is a chance they will take an- 
other mate. Still, on the other hand, they may never take another mate — especially older 
stock. This stock has exceptional long life, and have been known to reproduce up to 65 
years of age, with some attaining an age of 85 years. Though listed in the American 
Standard of Perfection to encourage exhibiting, they are not a domestic but a truly wild 
fowl. A Federal Permit is required to ship. 
STANDARD WEIGHTS 
Adult Gander 
. 
....12 Ibs. 
Young Goose 
. 
. 
Young Gander . 
--.---10 Ibs, 
Adult Goose .. 
HOW TO OBTAIN A FEDERAL PERMIT 
There is no charge for the Federal Permit to raise Migratory Fowl sucl. as the Canadian 
Honkers, Blue and Snow Geese. In the event you do not have this permit, write for your 
application 
to: U. S. Department of Interior, Fish and Wild Lofe Service, Bureau of 
Fisheries and- Wildlife, 1006 West Lake Street, Minneapolis 8, Minnesota, or the same 
ee 
gy 
al 
<ngiiee 
Department in Washington, D.C. 
Farm Horses 
The best way to learn about farm horses is to work. with 
someone who uses them. If you're still curious, try this 
British handbook. 
—F 
—SB 
Fata Horses (and other English farming handbooks) 
47 pp. 
Three shillings sixpence plus postage 
from: 
National Federation of Young Farmers Clubs 
National Agricultural Centre 
Kenilworth, Warwickshire CV8 2L6 
ieee 
In many stables it is the custom during the winter to give the horses 
a bran mash, in place of the usual bait, once a week. This is usually 
done on Saturday evening before the Sunday rest. The purpose of 
this is to clear the horses’ bowels (for a bran mash is /axative) and 
to lighten the diet at the weekend when there is less work for the 
horses to do. For if horses are hard at work and are being highly 
fed On oats, maize, beans or similar concentrates, they may become 
very ill indeed if their work suddenly stops and their rich feeding 
continues. The concentrates must be reduced and gran given as a 
h instead. Horses have died as a result of the wagoner neglecting 
duce their feed in this way. 
orseshoeing 
where i grew up they didn’t shoe horses, 
ground was so sandy that they didn’t need to. 
horseshoes were used for pitching at stakes 
after the picnic. 
1s 
book tells how to shoe horses. 
-~jd 
[Suggested by Roberta Becker Marshall] 
Oregon State University Press 
Corvallis, Oregon 97331 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
HOR SESHOEING 
ect of shoeing is,— 
To protect the hoof from excessive wear, and thus render 
horse continuously serviceable upon our hard roads. 
Lae’ 4 9 prevent slipping and falling during the winter season. 
ne with respect to form, growth, quality, and elasticity. 
, there are such great differences in the character 
ad-2 races: and in the nature of horses’ work that shoeing 
Veterinary Notes for Horse Owners 
an old standard. semi-technical, exhaustive, 
reference guide. i can’t see much application 
for the book if you don’t own a horse, but if 
you do, it could save you a few hundred dollars in vet bills. 
jd 
[Suggested by Peter Ratner] 
a 
Notes for Horse Owners 
M. Horace 
Hayes 
1877;1970; 656pp. 
$1 2.50 postpaid 
from: 
Arco Publishing Company 
219 Park Avenue South 
New York, New York 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Working mares are more apt to conceive than the fat and idle, 
while a working stallion will often succeed in impregnating mares 
which have proved barren to several successive sires; this is one 
of the reasons why farmers use an indifferent sire in their own 
neighbourhood, instead of a high-priced animal who leaves no 
foals behind him. The method of trying a mare over a gate, and 
the conclusions arrived at, are not always reliable, as in the case 
of a mare the writer had, and for whom a suitable sire could 
not be found, till chancing to meet a friend's cob, he took the 
mare out of harness and got her covered in a neighbour's 
barn, 
much against her will, with the result that she brought a splendid 
foal, and 7 days afterwards conceived to another horse. The 
9th day after foaling is very generally agreed to be the most 
successful time for impregnation, and the case mentioned is to 
show how great this is a departure from the received traditions 
of breeders is yet consistent with impregnation. This little mare 
never at any time showed the ordinary signs of being in use, on 
both occasions resented the visit of the sire, was at no other time 
stinted, yet proved a most jealous mother and brought up both 
foals. The mere fact of a stallion coming through the village was 
the sole reason of her being served on the 7th day. 
SPAVIN 
Fic. 69. Examination of the hocks 
from each shoulder. 
The near 
(left) hock is ‘spavined’. 
OASIS 
Estelle had been driving since about two in the morning and 
_ 
by ten she was exhausted. She might have been able to go another ire 
hour or two if she hadn‘t drunk the beer she’d swiped from the 
Lone Outdoorsman the night before. But she did, and it wiped 
her out completely. Divine Right had been in a trance for over 
an hour now, but she couldn't spare the energy to worry about him 
yet. She felt it was a major achievement just to get Urge off the 
freeway into the little town of Lone Oak before she passed out at 
the wheel. Her neck and back were killing her, and she could barely 
keep her eyes open to look for a Chevron station. She had to 
find a Chevron station because they were traveling on the Anaheim 
Flash’s credit card, and they only had three dollars and a quarter 
left out of the twenty dollars they'd set out with. Lone Oak was 
just a one-street spot on a two-lane road, but if it had a Chevron 
station it would be an oasis indeed. 
Estelle held her breath as she 
slowly cruised the street. At last she saw the blessed red white and 
blue sign, and gratefully pulled up under the canopy. 
“Good morning miss, how are you today?” 
The service station man was an older fellow who walked with 
a limp, but he gave off the nicest vibe Estelle had found at a 
station in more stops than she could remember. As soon as he 
got the gas pump going he went right to work scraping bugs off 
the windshield and checking Urge’s tires. 
Estelle was so used to 
taking crap from service station people the old fellow’s manner 
made her want to just stop the trip and hang around the station 
all day. Or even just live here, she thought. God, would | ever 
like to have a nice, clean service station to call my home for ever, 
ever more. 
Her sense of welcome, and relief, was so complete she 
decided to celebrate and blow fifteen cents on a Coke. 
“Don’t drink that stuff,”” a man’s voice behind her said. 
“Try some of this.” 
Estelle turned around to face two freaks, a man in a Greek 
athlete costume and a girl in a drab outfit of dirty jeans and work 
shirt with the tail hanging out. Her expression was very spacy. 
She looked a little older than Estelle, but her eyes were so weird 
it was hard to read anything very definite in her face. After she'd 
looked Estelle up and down, she turned and sat on the curb in 
the lotus posture and stared off into the east. The Greek, however, 
stayed right there with Estelle, looking into her eyes very intensely, 
smiling broadly as he held out a small brown bottle of stuff for 
her to drink. 
Estelle glanced at the bottle, then up and down at 
the guy’s costume. He had on a white toga, a leather thong for 
a belt, leather sandals that laced up to his knees, and a leather band 
around his upper arm. 
Estelle disliked him immediately, although 
she wasn’t exactly sure why. 
“What is it?’ she asked. 
"This, my dear, is acidophilus,” said the Greek taking the lid 
off his bottle. 
Estelle asked what acidophilus was. 
“It's the source of everything good for your tummy. People 
have been drinking it since before recorded history. You really 
ought to try some.” 
Estelle asked if it got you stoned. 
“Absolutely,” said the Greek. ‘It stones you on health, vigor 
and enthusiasm for the pure-food way of life.” 
Estelle nodded and said no thanks and turned around to buy 
her Coke. The Greek pleaded with her not to buy the Coke, and 
when she went ahead and bought it anyway he lectured her on 
its evil properties as she drank it. To hush him, Estelle asked if 
they were traveling. 
“Oh yes,” said the Greek. ‘By all means, we are traveling. 
We are traveling along the Middle Way enroute to a land where 
nothing has a name. And we'd also like to get to Oklahoma City, 
if you happen to be going that way.” 
"Can you drive?” 
"Drive like a champion,” said the Greek. ‘I have many talents 
for the many circumstances, situations and occasions one encounters 
as he journeys along The Way. I’ve also got some good food in my 
bag here, in case you happen to be hungry.” 
Estelle positively disliked the Greek by now, but she knew 
she was going to give the people a ride and so she tried to come 
on to him as neutrally as she could. 
If he would drive and let 
her rest it would probably be okay. 
Ideally Estelle would have 
liked to simply pass out and wake up in St. Louis some time 
during the night, but she knew that was too much to hope for. 
An hour or two of sleep while they made a few more miles was 
the realistic prospect, but it was enough. 
She told the people to 
go over to the bus, that she’d be there as soon as she went to 
the bathroom. 
“Who's that in back there?’’ asked the Greek when Estelle 
got back to the bus. 
“My old man. 
He's a little strung out right now, but he'll 
be all right. You ready to drive?’ 
“Who painted this thing?” asked the Greek’s girlfriend. 
Her 
name was Frieda. 
It was the first time she had spoken. 
There 
was something beligerent in her tone, and for a second it pissed 
Estelle off. 
But when she looked at Frieda again her anger went 
away and turned to something close to pity. Something about 
her eyes, what was it? She looked so lost, so far away in her 
mind. 
As gently as she could, Estelle replied, “Different people.” 
“Different people, huh.” 
"Yeah. 
You know. 
Friends.” 
"Friends, huh.” 
Estelle nodded and said yeah, and turned to pay the man for 
the gas and oil. 
“Goodbye,” Estelle said to the Chevron man. 
“I really 
enjoyed your station.” 
"Stop in again,” said the man. 
see us, you hear?” 
The Greek started Urge’s motor. 
Estelle crawled in back and 
stretched out next to Divine Right. 
By the time they were on 
the freeway again, she was sound asleep. 
“All of you, come back and 
Chickens, Horses 
Land Use 
