I= 
y 
“y~\Death i 
Some moments after his death, all take their leave and the 
Brother Infirmarian takes over. He first washes the body with 
care and then clothes it in a fresh habit. There is no embalm- 
ing, and the only special items are that the anus is stopped up 
to prevent any draining, and a cloth band is wrapped around 
the head and under the chin to keep the mouth closed. We 
call the local hospital for a doctor to come out and remove 
the eyes for the Eye Bank, to which all the monks are sub- 
scribed, or else drive the body to the hospital if the doctor is 
tied up. We do not paint the face or anything like that, but 
simply pull his hood up over his head and fold his hands in 
his sleeves. 
If he is also a priest, he wears a stole. Then, when 
all is ready, the body is brought in solemn procession with the 
community to the monastery church. Since one of the monks 
is a doctor, the official declaration of his death and all the 
legal matters are taken care of by him and the local monk 
notary: the laws are quite detailed. 
The body is laid out on a pallet or stretcher reserved for the 
purpose and is placed in the nave between the two rows of 
choir stalls. Then monks in turns keep watch by the body, 
two at a time, continuously until the burial. They watch in 
half-hour turns, reading the Psalms aloud to one another. 
The Psalms are good poetry and good prayer, and they sit 
well with the heart in the presence of death when you are a- 
lone with it in the deep of night. The Easter Candle is kept 
burning by the body as witness to our faith in the Resurrec- 
tion: 
this is a big candle some four feet tall and as thick as 
your wrist. This with the large processional cross is used at 
all death rites. The regular Choir Services continue in the 
presence of the deceased monk, seven times a day, beginning 
at three in the morning. At such times the two by the body 
join the choir. The Choir Services are adapted to the event 
and are concerned with appropriate themes: 
time, eternity, 
death, life, resurrection. 
od 
PoP 
; 
The funeral Mass generally takes place the next morning, the 
Memorial Supper of the Lord. Such a Eucharist is quite filled 
with hope and with joy, and all eat the bread and drink the 
cup to faith in the life to come and in prayer for the dead 
Brother. 
After the Mass the body is sprinkled with blessed 
water and a thurible of smoking incense carried around it. 
Then the procession forms and we carry him out to the grave- 
yard back of the monastery church. 
There the Brothers have already dug a grave deep into the 
earth, sometimes with the help of compressed-air shovels, 
since there is hard clay and shale not far below. We gather 
around the grave and there are more prayers and readings, 
the grave is blessed and incensed by the Abbot. Then the 
Brother Infirmarian goes down into the grave by a ladder to 
receive the body. Meanwhile the pall-bearers have lifted the 
body from the pallet on the quilt mat which has three long 
cloth bands on each side by means of which they lower the 
monk into the grave. The Brother down below arranges the 
body, slips the quilt out so they can pull it up, pulls the 
monk’s hood down over his face, covers him with a white 
sheet, and then comes up the ladder. The ladder is removed 
2 
and the Abbot steps up and scatters a first handful of earth 
Sd Th 
M 
t 
Way 
tf D 
th 
over him in the form of a cross. The pall-bearers start to 
e 
Onas 
1c 
oO 
ea 
~ 
fill in the grave quietly and gently, beginning at the feet. 
When the whole body is well covered they stop and the com- 
When a monk dies here, unless it is in the middle of the night, the big bell is rung slowly for a longer per- 
munity leaves, after first kneeling on the earth to ask pardon 
iod, a signal for the monks near the monastery to drop what they are doing and come pray for the Broth- 
for themselves and all men. A few remain to finish. Then 
er that he might have a good trip into eternity. Generally a large number are on hand to gather around 
a ore is erected over the grave and later on the name put 
on it. 
the bed and join in the prayers. (We do the sacramental Anointing of the Sick in church for any monk 
getting on in years or sickly, but long before he is approaching death). 
For some weeks after his death, a cross stands at the monk’s 
place at table in the refectory to remind all of their Brother 
that they may pray for him. During the days after, the 
monks will be praying their Psalters for him that all may be 
well with him in the next life. 
Such a monastic funeral is very simple and beautiful. There 
is nothing gruesome or morbid about it, nor anything phoney 
or artificial. Death is recognized for what it is: the end of 
life on earth, and no attempt is made to hide this. The body 
is treated with reverence and love, but is not embalmed or 
falsified in any way. Nor do we use a casket or box, since 
the Brother is bemg returned to the mother which bore him 
and who will keep him in her depths until the last day. 
Possibly the only one in the cemetery (besides an abbot who 
died while on a train trip) to be buried in a casket is Father 
Louis (Thomas Merton). He died in Bangkok and was given 
a military coffin and flown back to this country by the 
Armed Forces with other dead. Since there had been a long 
delay, the Abbot decided not to remove the body from the 
casket, no embalming having been done. The monks found 
the large casket in their midst somewhat incongruous, yet 
noted that it was perhaps fitting that the author of The Sign 
of Jonas should have been buried inside so large a fish. Fa- 
ther Louis was always fond of the genuine character of the 
monastic funeral, and we wondered that he did not in some 
way make it known to us that the real Jonas did not stay 
permanently in the belly of the whale. Other than that he 
had the regular monk’s funeral. 
Father Matthew Kelty 
monk of Gethsemani 
Death 
Trappist, Kentucky 
Community 
