BY 
= 
unde 
bo 
ie»! 
‘ 
_ conscience, of raciaee aha ete of. health. Men hats it 
iked the sound. He liked the cow. He liked feeling 
nth an d squeezing the rhythm of milk into the pail. It was 
keeping a milk-cow these days when you could 
veaper’ n alfalfa, but dammit a cow's tit was a nice change 
andle, and the soft working of a cow’s gut was a relief 
man’s snortin’ and fartin’ and John’s bullshitting and 
acces ecne: Oh, well; they didn’t really mean anything 
rried the loads of people across. 
Cars started, spinning 
>t back onto the highway. Henry’s plaster cast thundered 
on the docks. 
-ass 
thing, keeping a cow. 
pening sky where the spearpoint firs scratch the clouds, 
dy a 
moon— like a cast-off paring from the setting sun. This 
k's pPalt: too. 
docks the noisy woodpecker of a man parades up and down, 
nis plume of hair that is yellow and coarse as a bundle of 
cen toothpicks when seen close up; fifty yards away it is white 
head; fifty yards away at the wrong end of a telescope 
d's 
wife steps into the waiting boat with a foot as demure and 
a 
hat of a thoroughbred colt. Joe Ben’s poor hacked 
of « face shines out across the green water as pure as a 
nd his potato-shaped wife is a swan in polka-dotted 
Fifty yards away. 
euecks bell— secret between peaks of foam, muffled in 
ite valleys— this is Hank's bell ringing 
3S 
Hank stood, strangely peaceful, and let the challenger 
liver the first blow. 
It was almost his undoing. He was spun 
pletely around and into the bar; his head struck the wood with 
1d and he fell to his knee RUN FOOL! WATCH OUT! 
Bignewton was on him before he could rise...) 
You see, 
All every one dirty whining sniveling pricks vicious red-sweater 
¢ Ubby faces far back If can remember blame me Me, Lee, do 
n face fo ard on the floor) assholes who couldn’t pour piss 
a boot my fault— Oh Christ, Lee, do you see? (and from 
ition. he twisted his head toward me WATCH OUT! WATCH 
eeripoly to make certain of my presence) all Ds, stomp 
be 
Pau yelling kill him because | won't run the sonsa- 
b che: 
Lee! you bastard! (...and, before | could think— because 
2 
ey the beer I'd drunk, perhaps because | wanted him 
rther— WATCH OUT, HANKI 
| heard myself shouting 
T UP!) sonsabitches you think | care please let me hate 
you see 
I can (and, as though he had been waiting for 
ignal, ae rose GET UP trailing blood HANK HANK and an 
..) YOU you think | care hate J please them! 
‘ 
-to prove himself HANK YES HANK 
c! very bit as primitive. . .) please hate! care do you? Them 
it nes! (as the prehistoric biped) THEM NOW do you? 
sase KILL THEM! (and even more proficient YES ans 
jilist!) let me do you THEM kill NOW NOW NOW. . 
lograp: 1s and James Agee’s prose and in the lives of the 
ropper South is the sound 
Now Praise Famous Men 
ee, Walker Evans 
ye caught? 
t 
has happened? What is it has been happening that 
for me, he just takes me when he wants me: 
ne 
> seems like you never see the end of it: 
The Four-Gated City 
Doris Lessing 
1969; 656 pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc., 
A National General Co. 
666 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
The 
Four-Gated 
City | 
Doris Lessing 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The bad time continued. 
It was expressed in a number of separate 
events, or processes, in this of that part of the world, whose com- 
mon quality was horror — anda 
senseless horror. To listen, to 
read, to watch the news of any one of these events was to submit 
oneself to incredulity: 
this barbarism, this savagery, was simply not 
possible. And, everywhere in this country, in the world, people like 
oneself sat reading, looking, watching, in precisely the same condi- 
tion: 
this is not possible; it can’t be happening; it’s all so monstrous- 
ly silly that | can’t believe it... The war in Korea was at the height 
of its danger for the world, the propaganda on both sides had 
reached a point where no one sensible could believe a word of it, 
and for months it looked as if nothing could stop America using 
“the bomb” there. 
In America the hysteria had grown till that great 
nation looked from outside like a dog driven mad by an infestation 
of fleas, snapping and biting at its own flesh; and a man called Joe 
McCarthy, who had no qualities at all, save one, the capacity to 
terrorise other people, was able to do as he liked. Throughout 
Africa various countries fought in various ways against the white 
man, but in Kenya there was a full-scale war, both sides (as in 
Korea) fighting with a maximum of nastiness and lies. 
This is Dali landscape. 
I’m plugged in to Dali mind. 
If 1 could draw, 
paint, then I’d paint this, Dali picture. Why does only Dali plug in 
to Dali country? No, Dali and me. 
Therefore Dali and — plenty of 
others. But nurse says, delusions. 
If ignorant, does not think is 
Dali country. 
Thinks: 
That’sa 
silly picture. 
If educated, knows, 
thinks: 
| ama copycat. 
Or, that must be a Dali picture | haven't 
seen? (Perhaps it is.) 
He couldn’t have painted so many. Why not? 
Plagiarism. 
(Think about this after when time.) Mark writes 
something. Then it’s floating in the air. Someone can plugin. A 
City in the Dessert is photostatted in the photosphere. 
(Oh, very 
funny. Ha. You only deserve half a laugh for that one.) 
One of them is rather weak, 
And one of them is very meek. 
And one of them is just a horse. 
And one of them is rather coarse. 
One of them would like to strangle. 
Hurt and tear and bite and mangle. 
And one of them is rather crude. 
And one of them is just a prude. 
And one of them... 
For God's sake stop, sobbed Martha, clutching her ears as this awful 
da-da-da-da-da- ground into her eardrums. 
Lying face down, nose in a thick plush of carpet which smelled 
faintly of dust, the sea of sound came down, swallowed her. 
Almost. 
i'm so hot when | get through cooking a meal it’s more than | can 
do to sit down to it and eat it: 
How was it we were caught? 
e 
His mother sits in a hickory chair with her knees relaxed and her 
bare feet flat to the floor; her dress open and one broken breast 
exposed. Her head is turned a little slantwise and she gazes quietly 
downward past her son’s head into the junctures of the earth, the 
floor, the wall, the sunlight, and the shade. One hand lies long and 
flat along her lap: 
it is elegantly made of bone and is two sizes too 
large for the keen wrist. With her other hand, and in the cradling 
of her arm and shoulder, she holds the child. 
His dress has fallen 
aside and he is naked. As he is held, the head huge in scale of his 
body, the small body ineffably relaxed, spilled in a deep curve from 
nape to buttocks, then the knees drawn up a little, the bottom small 
and sharp, and the legs and feet drifted as if under water, he suggests 
the shape of the word siphon. He is nursing. 
His hands are blunder- 
ing at her breast blindly, as if themselves each were a new born 
creature, or as if they were sobbing, ecstatic with love; his mouth is 
intensely absorbed at her nipple as if in rapid kisses, with small and 
swift sounds of moisture; his eyes are squeezed shut; and now, for 
breath, he draws away, and lets out a sharp short whispered ahh, 
the hands and his eyelids relaxing, and immediately resumes; and in 
all this while, his face is beatific, the face of one at rest in paradise, 
and in all this while her gentle and sober, earnest face is not altered 
out of its deep slantwise gazing: 
his head is now sunken off and 
away, grand and soft as a cloud, his wet mouth flared, his body still 
more profoundly relinquished of itself, and | see how against her 
body he is so many things in one, the child in the melodies of the 
womb, the Madonna’s son, human divinity sunken from the cross 
at rest against his mother, and more beside, for at the heart and 
leverage of that young body, gently, taken in all the pulse of his 
being, the penis is partly erected. 
And Ellen where she rests, in the gigantic light: she, too, is com- 
pletely at peace, this child, the arms squared back, and palms open 
loose against the floor, the floursack on her face; and her knees are 
flexed upward a little and fallen apart, the soles of the feet facing: 
her blown belly swimming its navel, white as flour; and blown full 
broad with slumbering blood into a circle: 
so white all the outward 
flesh, it glows of blue; so dark, the deep hole, a dark red shadow of 
life blood: 
this center and source, for which we have never 
contrived any worthy name, is as if it were breathing, flowering, 
soundlessly, a snoring silence of flame; it is as if flame were 
breathed forth from it and subtly played about it: and here in this 
breathing and play of flame, a thing so strong, so valiant, so 
unvanquishable, it is without effort, without emotion, | know it 
shall at length outshine the sun. 
Ice Age? 
Hall of Mirrors 
Robert Stone 
1967; 352 pp. 
’ 
Rohers Stone 
$0.95 postpaid 
Wess 
from: 
Fawcett Publications, Inc. 
67 W. 44th St., 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Marvin looked from face to face and stopped at Rheinhardt. 
“Man,” he said, ‘that wasn’t the California you know. No 
mufflers. No titty-tatty. No ogla bee. No gasoline-smel! grease- 
trap taco stand plastic supermarket shit. No fat woman drive ins. 
No polite killer cops. No oregano salesmen. No Northbeach. 
No Southbeach. No Beach Beach. It wasn’t like that, man—you 
think it was?” 
“No,'’ Rheinhardt said. ‘lt couldn't have been.” 
“It couldn’t have been,’ Marvin said soberly. “It could not have 
been. And it was not.” 
“\t was a California of the mind,”’ the girl said. 
“My God,” Bogdanovich said stepping forward in wide-eyed 
astonishment, “what a California that would be!’ As they watched, 
he raised his hands to, describe a box and held them palms 
facing down. “Look,” he told them, “that’s your mind, dig? 
And here it’s all gray, it’s all nowhere, it’s just dry and barren and 
terrible trips. But here, dig—at the western end there's a curving 
beach and white surf rolling up on it. And there’s blue and purple 
: 
islands and high cold mountains and forests with a carpet of 
pine needles. And orange juice in the clear desert.” 
eo 
“There, there, baby. Don’t feel so bad. 
I'll tell you a little story 
make you feel better. 
See, Lester knows how you all can’t tell one 
black person from another because you couldn't live with yourselves 
and all like that. 
He enjoys that phenomenon very much, you dig it? 
Well, one time they sent him down a fool like you and he walked 
that cat over a whole floor of his wiggy little hotel interviewing 
different people. 
All sorts and kinds and shapes of humanity. 
Every 
one of them— 
man, woman and child— was the same cat. 
!t was 
the greatest Big Store trip ever pulled and old Lester did it sheerly 
for the sport.” 
Berry removed his shades and wiped his eyes. 
”Fella’s name was Archie that was all the people. Archie had a lot 
of talent but the day was Lester’s. 
It was too much. That white 
man left with a notebook full of details and a funny feelin’ somewhere 
way down in his head. 
| don’t think it ever really got to him.” 
He was weeping with mirth, waving his shades in Rainey’s face. 
Rainey began to laugh with him. 
“The Big Store,’ Rainey said, twisting his rainhat, nearly doubling 
up. 
“That's it, that’s it,” Berry said, gripping Rainey’s shoulder. “Too 
much.” 
“Too much,” Rainey said. 
It seemed to Rheinhardt that he had elicited a respectful silence 
from the stands; thus encouraged, he went on. 
“The American Way is innocence,”’ Rheinhardt announced. 
“‘In all 
situations we must and shall display an innocence so vast and 
awesome that the entire world will be reduced by it. American 
innocence shall rise in mighty clouds of vapor to the scent of heaven 
and confound the nations! 
“Our legions, patriots, are not like those of the other fellow. We 
are not perverts with rotten brains as the English is. We are nota 
sordid little turd like the French. We are not nuts like the Kraut. 
We are not strutting maniacs like the gibroney and the greaseball! 
“On the contrary our eyes are the clearest eyes looking out on the 
world today. 
| tell you that before our wide, fixed blue-eyed stare 
the devious councils of the foreign horde are confounded as the 
brazen idolators before enlightened Moses. 
“No matter what they say, Americans, remember this— we're OK! 
Who else can say that? No one. No one else can say— we're OK. 
Only in America can a people say— we're OK. 
| want you all to say 
it with me. 
“We're OK," Rheinhardt shouted raising his arm to invite 
accompaniment. Someone in the stands was heard to fire a pistol. 
———— wae 
Got ee 
— I 
But you could see it now. Taking shape. The short side was 
completed, and they were half way across the long front, nailing to 
the seventh post. An enclosure was being made. A wall, the hori- 
zontal one-by-sixes parallel, a perfect shape of empty space between 
them; the upright posts their roots into the ground. There was a 
texture now; the rough lumber like beard-stubble, splintery to the 
touch; there was shape and there was texture and marvelous 
patterned lines and angles at the posts. There was aesthetic going 
on, and cosmic law. It’s measured space, enclosed, D.R. thought. 
It's a line upon the earth for the work of meat-production to go on 
behind. They were agents of the fence, its architects and builders; 
they were building fence, setting limits on the space. The space, 
enclosed, was inside time, it’s two twenty now... 
“Yeoww! Shit!" and D.R. dropped his hammer and grabbed his 
thumb and danced around in circles. 
Leonard looked up and grinned as D.R. cussed. 
“Be kinder to yourself,” said Leonard. ‘Always pay attention 
to your work.” 
. 
. 
j
Fiction 
“24
Learning 
INATTENTION 
