Tensile Structures, Volume One 
The only pavilicn of Expo 67 more beautiful than Fuller’s 
U.S. Dome was the West German tent, designed by Frei 
Otto. He is currently the master of structures whose flexible 
skin is the prime structural element. 
Volume One of his 
2-volume work is devoted to Pneumatic Structures——air 
houses plus. Every designer we know who’s seen this book 
has commenced to giggle and point, jump up and down, and 
launch into enthusiastic endorsement of Otto, design, being 
a designer, and look at this here. The book is comprehensive 
in its field, technically thorough, beautifully presented. 
Small floating balloons may carry fertile soil in nets or perforated foils. 
L$ 
aE 
centered by a hose. 
The best way of retaining the spherical shape is by means 
of water. 
This shows a floating steel balloon, retained and 
© Struc 
Praumatic St 
Frei 
On 
Tensile Structures, Vol. One 
Pneumatic Structures 
Frei Otto 
1967; 320 pp. 
1660 illustrations 
$22.50 postpaid 
Tensile Structures, Vol. Two 
Cables, Nets and Membranes 
Frei Otto 
1969; 171 pp. 
$1 2.50 postpaid 
both from: 
The M. |. T. Press 
50 Ames Street 
/ 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Figure 9 is a section through a greenhouse set on sandy 
soil and cqvered by a transparent membrane with internal 
drainage. A membrane is also laid beneath the humus 
layer, and is positively connected with the roof membrane 
at the inner drainage points and along the outside edge. 
The humus layer thus forms a simple anchoring weight. 
The floor membrane simultaneously permits moisture control of the soil. 
The roofing of such cultivations by pneumatically tensed membranes with internal drainage 
is seen from the side in Fig. 10. A net of small open mesh floats on the water and carries 
the humus layer; it is supported both by inflated balloons and by the roof membrane itself 
which spans the floating fields and is immersed to a depth of approximately 15 cm at the 
edges. 
Frei Otto: Tension Structures 
This is a comprehensive collection of the stretched-membrane 
and pneumatic structures made or proposed by Frei Otto and 
his friends from 1953 to 1967. 
The many projects actually 
done or modelled are shown in photographs (many rather 
dark). Proposals, and explanations of the structures are 
shown in drawings and diagrams. 
The text explains things 
in a non-technical language. 
The math is not discussed. 
There are a number of structures shown that were news to 
me, and as usual they excited me a lot. Can you dig a dam 
made of cables and a membrane? Tension structures are 
economical and graceful, and we will probably be seeing a 
lot of them soon. 
If you want to understand them, this 
book is a good place to start. 
It’s claimed to be the only 
single volume collection printed in English. 
The price is 
something else. 
[Reviewed by Jay Baldwin] 
from: 
Praeger Publishers, Inc. 
111 Fourth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
Frei Otto: Tension Structures 
Conrad Roland 
1965, 1970; 172 pp. 
$22.50 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Frei Otto 
Shelter 
(Probably cheaper from Blackwell's, p. 2) 
For roofs over large areas it is usually necessary to employ structures 
of relatively low height. Because of the large radius of curvature, 
large-span pneumatic domes of low “‘rise’” have high membrane 
stresses. 
If, on the other hand, the membrane is anchored to the 
ground not only at the edges but also at one or more points in the 
interior, then the spans, the radii of curvature and therefore also the 
membrane stresses are reduced. While retaining the same average 
height, pneumatic roof structures with low points can be extended 
at will. They are among the most economical structures for covering 
large areas and are independent of the structure of the ground over 
which they span, inasmuch as tension anchorages may be given any 
desired length and be formed in all manner of soils and even under 
water. Such roof surfaces have to discharge their rainwater at the 
low points (structures of this kind are, in principle, conceivable 
also as vertical or steeply sloping wall surfaces. 
Tensile Structures, Volume Two 
Tensile Structures /s the complete story on tents and cable 
nets and like volume one the entire subject is covered in 
minute detail. 
The book is intended to show where the 
thinking and practice on the subject is at this time in 
history. 
There is an overview of the whole field, then 
specifics on cable, net and membrane structures. Each is 
thoroughly discussed and illustrated with photographs and 
drawings although graphics here are not as intriguing as 
in volume one. 
The last third of the book contains cal- 
culations on load-bearing abilities and design. For many 
readers this will be too technical to understand, much less 
use. But tensile structures are very exciting at this time, 
and the book is great for getting people started on experi- 
ments and construction. 
Canvas is a cheap building material. 
There’s a lot to learn here. 
The forms are very organic, and 
coverage 
is complete. 
: 
9 
gh 
eaihte 
[Reviewed by Jay Baldwin] 
Guyed masts consist of one-dimensional central 
elements subjected to compression and surrounded 
On all sides by one- or two-dimensional tension- 
loaded elements. 
They thus form three-dimensional 
systems most suitable for mobile structures. 
Many 
contemporary designs of high cranes for wide reaches 
are variations of this basic system. An elastic central 
rod can be bent by varying the lengths of the guys 
. 
(Fig. 3). For this, all cables must be adjusted 
simultaneously; this is done by synchronized hydrau- 
lic presses located at the anchoring point. A similar, 
but much more mobile system is shown in Fig. 4. A 
thin elastic central strut carries cantilevers connected 
to the ground by means of cables. 
In living nature the spine of a vertebrate (Fig. 7) is 
a guyed mobile system, approximately as shown in 
Fig. 4. A multiple articulated, highly flexible 
central rod, capable of taking up large compressive 
forces, is surrounded by a tension-loaded system 
consisting of many members, which secures the 
central rod against buckling and bending, while 
ensuring its complete mobility. 
