Friday, final meeting 
on the final issues. 
We meet and try to discover an end to what had Fasting at Ortega was simple: endurance. Bonnie- 
a beginning. Survivors decide to all sleep up- 
stairs, then break the fast together. Press is 
invited. People give up their fantasy dinners 
and agree to break fast on stewed tomatoes 
with a little salad later, as suggested in a book. 
Frank takes movie and tape snapshots of all 
survivors; some speak; some just look into 
the camera. 
HHKRE 
Sentient beings are numberless, starving and 
driven mad by over-crowding; vow to save 
them all. 
A vow is making a choice not to choose at 
each changing moment whether to stay or 
not. 
Survivors took the experiment as a vow. 
Here Liferaft opens out, game into world. 
Because there is no denying the vow of 
birth, of living with this world; it follows 
us where-ever we go, what-ever we do; 
there is no other choice for living because 
there is no other place to live. 
The TV newsman said, ‘Well, now that you've 
made it through this week and | see you're having 
some food, how do you feel?’’ The same guy 
who answered with a simple heartfelt murmur, 
“This is Christmas,” was the guy who had night- 
mares for a week that the Hunger Show was 
continuing, and shat pale and painful. That was 
me. That was my end of it. 
The one Richard Brautigan saw happened back on 
Wednesday, around noon, after everybody had 
taken their sopping gear and split to Menlo Park. 
Brautigan surveyed the empty parking lot with 
its smelly outhouses and outline of deflated plas- 
tic. He poked around in our tidy pile of trash, 
noted the abundance of children’s toys. He 
stood by the still-standing doorframe and listened 
to the sound of the rain on the plastic. While 
every so often the are-you-ready-t6d-die door 
swung slowly open and blam shut in the wind. 
Saturday, Pigasus, Wavey Gravy 
(scrawny gravy—down 20 Ibs.) 
Legal 3.2% 
Travel 5.1% 
Jean was now unable to walk, and Wavey carried 
her from room to room. Tom Law and Reno 
were hustling around organizing their Sympowow- 
sium. “The yogis,”’ said Bonnie-Jean, ‘‘are man- 
mountains.” 
Friday afternoon was a big last meeting, partly 
on Hog Farm business, partly Hunger Show. Wavey 
was making his farewell address to the Hog, 
signifying a new period for him of ‘’fast yoga’, 
on one quick bus, next destination the Chicago 8. 
For the Hunger Show, it was finding a way to 
bring a loose show back together and end it 
formally Saturday morning, on schedule. 
Saturday morning, the first bite of food—a squeeze 
of lemon, some avocado, stewed tomato—went off 
like fireworks in the body. Everybody’s smiling, 
everybody’s chewing. We had a kind of diploma 
printed up for those who made it through, and 
people are signing each others diplomas like high 
school yearbooks. 
“‘Best of luck in ‘69. Patty- 
cake.” 
Who are the survivors? Gandalf is manning the 
logbook and the scales and has the total: 
52 sur- 
vivors. Quite 
acrew. The hairiest and quietest of 
the starters, 
Lot of girls. Roy, Calvino, Rick, Amy, 
Wavey, Bonnie-Jean, Ruffin, Tom, Reno, Steven, 
Marsha, Peter, Jim, Bob Redhat, Dick Duncan, 
Tim, Buffalo Bob, Gil, Eban, Jerry Lamb, ... 
roll-call of the living. 
Liferaft Earth Cost Pie 
Sound & Lights 
17.8% 
Film 15.2% 
Bldg. Materials 
18.2% 
Supplies 
6.4% 
Salary 14.8% 
Publicity 
9.6% 
total cost $2357.61 
no income 
paid for by customers and subscribers 
of Whole Earth Catalog 
My mother is right, at last at last 
So Eat! Eat!, so 
fast & fast 
In India, China & Peru 
The last meal has got to be you. 
DDT & a BM 
The teeth of reason grind again 
Fuck no more for heavens sake! 
Save the world from the old fuck quake. 
$1.10 and I'll make you sterile 
Get your rocks off the moon 
(balls of beryl) 
Kids are made by fools like me 
But only the pill can make you free. 
TS 
SSSSSHSSHSSHSHSHSHSSHSHSSSHSHSSHSHSHSSHSHSHSHSSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSSHSHSHSSHSHSHSSHSHSHSSHSHSHSHSHSHSH
SHOHSHSSHSSSSHSSSSHSSSSESEEEEE 
ECH-OLOGY 
Man is a mucker (Cain mucked Abel) 
Don’t throw your beer cans under the table! 
God's in his penthouse——all’s right with the world 
He’s got a Dispozall for all things soiled. 
Make room for God! (Heah come de judge!) 
In a crown of 
garbage, with a scepter of sludge 
Man the mucker at his right hand side 
And Dr. Filth his sinister bride. 
Envoi: 
Breathe while you can & fuck while you may 
Species pass another day 
Yez dont take yer choice so yez pays yer fee: 
The earth a desert & death home free. 
—Tuli Kupferberg 
From “Earth Read-Out” 
439 Boynton, Berkeley 94707 
Time release 
A year ago, when you did Liferaft, I felt a little surprised that 
you were putting energy into a paranoid trip. I was also a 
little curious, a little envious, as | watched people leave here 
to go and participate. I had never fasted. Six days ago I 
began a fast, my first; and as I began I knew it would last 
at least seven days, because Liferaft had been seven days. 
I sat today for a long while under a green tree looking up at 
the sky through the leaves. There were many different shades 
of green and as the sun moved the patterns of the leaves 
changed; it was very beautiful. 
For some reason I found myself remembering a sentence from 
a science book I'd been reading: “Probably 300 million 
children in the world today are so undernourished that they 
are suffering permanent brain damage.” 
Since I came to live in the country I have been keeping use- 
less information out of my head. I don’t want to listen to 
horror stories when I could be chopping wood or canning 
blackberries or telling a story to the kids. I refuse to worry 
about something that I can’t do anything about. But this 
sentence didn’t feel like that. There I was, under a tree, 
surrounded only by good things, and yet I knew that on this 
planet children were hungry real children, children that I 
could easily reach in a days time (given enough money and 
a passport). They were inside my head, and it was right that 
they were inside my head. 
I don’t know where to go on from here. It feels like I am 
climbing aboard the Liferaft, a year late. 
Elaine 
Cave Junction, Oregon 
Fe 
cr 
Gave Re 
AT HOME WITH THE LONE 6UTDOORSMAN 
So far that day the Lone Outdoorsman had motorcycled to 
the toilet and back, and hiked around Section B of the Eagle Rock 
State Park campground. 
His plan had been to stop off at his camper 
for a beer and a bar of pemmican, and then go hunting over in the 
park amplitheater. with his new AR-I5 semiautomatic double 
barrel over-and-under. 
But after he’d noticed the hippie queer 
bothering the two foreign ladies in the red tent, he decided he’d 
better hang around the campsite just in case. 
He wanted a beer really badly by now, but as an act of disci- 
pline he kept his cooler closed, and satisfied his thirst with the warm 
water in his canteen. He considered foregoing a beer as an act of 
sacrifice for the ladies. As women, alone in the wilderness, they 
had a right to expect that much of him. He owed it to them, to 
the cause of westward settlement and civilization in general, to 
keep alert and ready until the threatening element among them had 
been dealt with in some sure and final way. 
Maybe it had already 
been dealt with. Maybe that little show of force right there in the 
hippie queer’s own campground would be sufficient to keep him 
from running amuck. The Lone Outdoorsman hoped it would. He 
sincerely hoped it would. 
For he was a peaceable man. He'd fought the war to make the 
Peace. 
It was his most fervent hope that peace would in fact 
endure, so that women 
and children could be safe in their homes, 
to grow and learn and become good citizens, so that people like 
these two foreign ladies could come to America and witness the 
magnificence of this great land from sea to shining sea in freedom 
and safety. Let the foreign people come to America, he thought. 
Let them experience our great mountains, our flowing rivers, our 
abundant wildlife, our historic monuments, our magnificant parks, 
both state and federal and our majestic canyons, deserts, plains 
and lakes, both fresh water and salt. Let peace reign, he thought. 
Let the people come, and enjoy, and be free. And let the freaks 
and queers and Jews and motorcycle gangs be goddamn careful 
when they fuck with the Lone Outdoorsman. 
The Lone Outdoorsman took another pull from his canteen. 
As he holstered it again he peered through his curtains and saw 
a suspicious thing: 
the threatening element next door was trying 
to sneak away, to rendezvous with a band of confederates over 
by the river. 
The Outdoorsman reached for his AR-I5 semi- 
automatic double-barrel over-and-under and prepared to fire. 
But then he lowered the weapon and through clenched teeth 
muttered, “Il think I'll follow that son of a bitch.” 
He hung 
the rifle on the wall and got his .357 magnum pistol out of a 
drawer and hitched it to his web belt. 
As Divine Right disappeared into the trees in the rear of 
Section C, the Lone Outdoorsman stealthily trailed behind him. 
Liferaft Earth 
Whole Systems 
