» Home Canning of Fruits and Vegetables 
Home & Garden Bulletin No. 8 
1965, 1969; 31 pp. 
$.20 postpaid 
Home Freezing of Fruits and Vegetables 
Home & Garden Bulletin No. 10 
1965, 1969; 47 pp. 
$.20 postpaid 
both from: 
Superintendent of Documents 
U.S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
ae 
Peaches can be peeled easily if they are dipped 
in boiling water, then in cold water. 
Storing Vegetables and Fruits 
This booklet will be valuable to anybody living in areas 
where the temperature in winter averages 30 degrees or 
lower. Storing without refrigeration relies on cold outdoor 
air to cool the stored products. “Basements, cellars, 
outbuildings and pits” are explained and diagrammed, with 
specific instructions for different vegetables and fruits. 
A bargain. 
—Hal Hershey 
Storing Vegetables and Fruits 
in basements, cellars, outbuildings and pits 
Home and Garden Bulletin No. 119 
18 pp. 
$.15 postpaid 
from: 
Superintendent of Documents 
U.S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 
STORING VEGETABLES 
AND FRUITS 
in basements, cellars, 
outbuildings. and pits f 
GURE 3.—Cone-shaped pit showing details of construction. 
ny 
o 
nee 
Nee 
ke 
re 
i 
cpa 
ee 
aed 
= 
oe 
gh 
guide to home canning has been in print since 
1909, it easily avoids the Grandma image and gets you into 
your own canning. It has illustrated, step-by-step directions 
and recipes and handy guides for jar estimating. When some- 
Asparagus 
Beans, Lima or Butter 
Beans, Snap, Green or 
Wax 
thing goes wrong, there’s trouble-shooting guides. If you have 
a good growing summer, this book can help 
fed winter. A buy. 
—SB 
VEGETABLE 
PREPARATION FOR FREEZING 
2-inch lengths. Scald. Chill. Pack, leaving no head space. 
Shell. Wash. Sort according to size. Scald. Chill. 
Cook until tender. Chill. Peel and cut as desired. 
Soap, etc. 
TO DRY CORN FOR WINTER USE 
Sweet corn is the best. Husk it. Have a pot of boiling water— put 
your corn in & let it boil 3 min— then cut it from the cob & put 
it in pans in a warm oven. 
It must be stirred frequently, when 
perfectly dry, put away in bags. When wanted for use, soak it all 
night, next day boil it an hour with a little salt; before serving 
stir in a little flour, pepper & butter. 
TO FRESHEN WALNUTS 
When Walnuts have been kept until the meat is too dried to be 
good, let them stand in milk & water 8 hrs. and dry them— fresh 
as new they will be. 
TO MAKE AN IMPROVED CANDLE 
Make the wick about half the usual size, & wet them with spirits of 
turpentine; dry them, before dipping, in the sunshine & the candles 
will be more durable, emit a steadier & clearer blaze. 
WATERPROOF BOOTS 
A pint of boiled linseed oil, half a pd. of mutton suet, six ounces of 
clean beeswax, & four ounces of rosin, are to be melted & well 
mixed over a 
fire. Of this, while warm, but not hot enough to shrink 
the leather, lay on plentifully with a brush over new boots or shoes, 
when quite dry and clean. The leather remains pliant. The New 
England fishermen preserve their boots water tight by this method, 
which, it is 
said, has been in use among them over 100 years. 
They 
can stand in water hour after hour without inconvenience. 
EO'MAKE SOAP FROM ASHES 
To prepare alye for soap, take a barrel without a bottom ©& 
place 
it on a board that has a trough to convey the water into another 
vessel; cover the bottom with straw, then sprinkle over a couple 
quarts of lime; fill the barrel with ashes; turn on cold water, a 
pail at a time— slowly! Continue to turn on water, at intervals of 
3-4 hours the Ist, 3rd & 5th days. When the lye becomes strong 
enough to bear up an egg, put to 15 gal of it, 11 pds. of grease, 
heated to the boiling point. Stirit for 5 min. every day, till it 
forms soap. If it doesn’t inl week, adda 
pailful of soft water. 
Albert & Cindy 
Bass Lake, CA. 
WRITE FOR FREE DIRECTIONS FOR SOAP MAKING FROM: 
Household Products Dept. 
Penwalt Corporation 
3 Parkway 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19102 
or 
U.S. Dept. of Agriculture 
Agricultural Research Service 
Clothing & Housing Research Branch 
Washington, D.C. 20525 
Madeline G. Salmon 
Menlo Park, Calif. 
NOTES ON SOAPMAKING 
is 
Never use lye on aluminum utensils (lye acts upon them). For 
small batches of soap, enameled or granite ware is suitable 
and for larger batches, an iron kettle may be used. 
2s 
All grease should be pure and clean to obtain soap with a 
clean, wholesome odor. 
ch 
Measure accurately. 
Be careful about temperatures. 
4. 
Ammonia, kerosene, carbolic acid, etc., when added to soap 
help it little, if any, as the lye usually neutralizes them. They 
increase cost and may make soap harsh on skin. 
5. 
Coldness makes a hard, brittle soap. 
Excess lye makes-a-coarse, flinty soap that will crumble when 
shaved. Soap should have a smooth, velvety texture that 
curls when’shaved. 
It should not bite the tongue when aged. 
Te 
Use the all-purpose soap for toilet soap, a shampoo, for 
* 
washing prints, lingerie, hose-and other delicate fabrics. 
8. 
The following fats (for soapmaking) are listed in the order 
of their desirability: Tallow, lard and their combinations, 
Olive oil, other vegetable oils. Mineral oils will not make soap. 
9. 
Poultry fat should be combined with other fats, as soap 
made from it alone is soft and spongy. 
10. 
Aging always improves soap. Soap made from lard or soap 
that has been boiled requires longer aging before it becomes 
hard and ready for use. 
dias 
Instead 
of storing rinds and meats scraps, extract the fat; 
store in a tightly covered container in a cool, dry place. 
12. 
Make the fat into soap as it accumulates and let the soap 
age rather than allow the fat to get too old and rancid. 
13. 
There need never be a failure in soapmaking. 
If separation 
occurs,.it can be reclaimed. 
14. 
Where you find your grease has. become rancid or contains 
materials other than fats, boil in large quantity of water, 
allow. to cool, skim off grease,.and then follow. the directions 
in the recipe for soapmaking. 
you have a well- 
Sort stalks according to thickness. Wash thoroughly. Cut in jar-size or 
Wash. Remove ends. Cut as desired. Scald. Chill. 
Wash and sort according to size. Trim tops, leave ¥2 inch of stems. 
CEB 
RE 
ERRR 
ERR 
RRR 
RRR 
eee 
eee 
tone he began to tell about the process of his salvation. 
' 
\ 
7 
Bei 
ot 
$.35 postpaid from: 
em 
Ball Bros. Co., Inc. 
Muncie, Indiana 
SCALDING 
TIME IN 
MINUTES* 
Small 
30 
Medium 45 
SALVATION 
When everybody was seated they bowed their heads while 
Doyle asked the blessing. D.R. had never heard his brother-in- 
law ask the blessing before and he couldn’t resist keeping his eyes 
open to watch him. Marcella had been a church goer all her life, 
2 
and the kids had been going to Stinday School since they could 
ff 
walk. But the blessing had never been part of mealtime in their 
house before, and D.R, was a little astounded. What was surprising 
was the quality of Doyle's prayer. 
It was short and simple, but, 
for Doyle, strangely articulate and obviously sincerely felt. He 
thanked the Lord for the food they were about to eat, for the 
house they lived in and the comforts they enjoyed. He especially 
thanked Him for David's safe arrival, and for the Privilege of 
gathering together as a family once again. Doyle seemed to sense 
that the ritual surprised D.R., for when he had said Amen and 
Marcella started serving the food, he began talking about his recent 
conversion and baptism into the church Marcella had been attending 
for years. 
“Of course,” said Doyle, “I’m new in it, there’s a lot | don’t 
understand. 
But as far as feeling good about something, David, 
\ 
| never felt any better about a thing in my whole life than | do 
this.” 
“We've already got him taking up the collection,” said Marcella. 
Doyle laughed. “I’m surprised they trust the likes of me with 
their money.” 
D.R. laughed at that, and went on to congratulate Doyle on 
his decision. ‘‘But | have to say I’m pretty surprised,” he added. 
=imean-coe.” 
“Honey you ain’t a bit more surprised than | am, let me tell 
you. Why sometimes | even forget {"ve gone and done it. At work 
I'll rip out a big cuss, and along about four in the afternoon | 
get to thinking how good a big old beer would taste after work. 
But then I'll find myself in church on Sunday morning, singing 
hymns and listening to that little preacher, and it’s sort of like 
waking up out of a dream.” 
D.R. asked Doyle to tell him how he came to his decision. The 
question embarrassed Doyle a little, and he took a big mouthful 
of food to keep froin having to answer right away. D.R. watched 
him as he chewed. Doyle had always been very lean as a young 
man, but in the last few years he’d begun to accumulate flesh 
around his middle, and in his neck and cheeks. His face was losing 
its angularity and taking on a roundness that made him seem boyish 
“and middle-aged at the same time. Doyle was thirty-four now, but 
as he-bit:down on his food the tendons in his big jaw flexed 
beneath his skin, and for a second the old toughness, and even 
meanness, of his youth was»restored to his face, and for some reason 
D.R. found that very moving. “He loved Doyle. And he loved 
Marcella. When he wasn‘t.with them he really didn’t think about 
them all that much. But now, sitting with them in their kitchen, 
sharing food, looking at their faces, at the faces of the children, 
smelling the-raw, familiar odor of their home and hearing the old 
familiar notes:in their strange voices, D.R. suddenly felt a little 
overwhelmed. 
It was a rush, a strange high that caused tears to 
work behind his eyes, and some deep longing to stir inside his 
* 
chest. 
If D.R. had been called on to speak just then he wouldn't 
q 
have been able to. Doyle was having his own difficulties speaking. 
f 4 
but at last he swallowed his food and in a low and more serious 
ty 
ae?
wa
e
Preserving " 
> 
Community 
© 
