; 
ipieieiers 
¢ 
Be 
ae 
An 
inflatable is 
an event, like circus tents used to be. Dogs 
bark, kids gather, old ladies get 
up tight, cops drift by, 
youths take off their clothes. 
. 
Inflatables are trippy, cheap, light, imaginative space not 
architecture at all. Theyre terrible to work in. The blazing 
redundant surfaces disorient; one wallows in space. When 
the sun goes behind a cloud you cease cooking and immedi- 
ately start freezing (insulation schemes are in the works). 
Environmentally, what an inflatable is best at is protecting 
you from a gentle rain. Wind wants to take the structure 
with it across the county, so you get into heavy anchoring 
operations. 
To give inflatables their well-earned due, they are wonder- 
ful recreational structures. 
High and scary but thoroughly 
safe. Like an immense water bed, or slow-motion trampo- 
line, or squishy mountain. Person-flinging giddiness maker. 
This book of Ant Farm’s has all the basic design and 
: 
materials information to puff up your own dream sky 
hill. 
‘ 
—SB 
ers, net, and earth-augur 
pentapus) made to order. 
Inflatocookbook 
$3.00 (includes forthcoming Supplement) 
from: 
ANT FARM 
247 Gate 5 Road 
Sausalito, California 94965 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
\f your inflatable is going to be up outdoors in any wind, it will need 
an anchoring system. For small volume (500 sq. ft. of floor area or 
less) interior weights should work; these could be sand bags or water 
bags. Larger structures require heavier anchoring. There are a number 
40’ VINYL PILLOW Dielectrically welded vinyl pillow with double blow- 
anchors. 2 doors, variety of colors and weight 
vinyl. $2,000-2,500. Rents for $150/day. Other sizes and shapes (see 
of ways of doing it: integrally made tie downs, buried edge, weight- 
ed edges, taped edge, or tension net anchors. Buried edge is good 
for a semi-permanent installation where you can diga trench. A 
taped edge is good for a small installation on a smooth floor; tie 
downs and tension nets are good for sites with existing things to tie 
to (trees, fire hydrants), or where it would be easy to drive tent 
stakes or augers. 
The anchoring system must withstand not only windloading but 
also the internal air pressure of the structure. 
Precise structural 
calculations should be left to 2 engineers, 3 Ph.D. mathematicians, 
and a computer, but a little rough math can give you a close enough 
estimate of what anchors to use. We will deal first with inflation 
pressure and second with wind loads. 
Products for Inflatables 
Roberts Valves Catalog 
Halkey-Roberts Corporation 
Spring Valley Avenue 
Paramus, New Jersey 07652 
The valves for small inflatables——cheap, hi-tech like 4¢ apiece. The 
660 KD is an airtight valve that goes on with a brass grommet & 
steel pressure die, i.e., no heatsealer. The die costs $17; it works 
fine in an arbor press, OK with hammer. Vacuum cleaner tube 
goes over outside of valve 
Smith-Dixie Industrial Fabrics 
i 
North Side Drive 
Box 1203 
Statesville, North Carolina 
Catalog has sample swatches. New & seconds, & government reject, 
vinyl-coated nylon fabrics at good prices. A small company; | 
haven't ordered yet, but people I've talked to seem pleased with 
their service. 
Love & Peace to all 
Charles Tilford 
New York, N.Y. 
Vinyl Cements 
| have been developing a portable, collapsible, insulated 
shelter in which | have been using a nylon reinforced 
vinyl requiring a suitable adhesive. 
| would like to advise the person who refers to himself as 
the ‘Virginian’ in Pax River, Maryland that Bostik Adhe- 
sive Specialists, a subsidiary of USM Corp. in Middleton, 
Mass., produces an excellent adhesive for vinyl. It is re 
ferred to as 4067 a nitrile rubber base adhesive and 7130, 
a synthetic resin base. Both are excellent and are often 
used industrially for vinyl! inflatables. 
4 
James W. Smith 
Providence, R.I. 
The Latest Inflatables 
Here’s what we've been doing with inflatables recently——at the 
Media Conference at Goddard, many of us (Cosmic Labs, South- 
coast) lived in poly bubbles in the woods (300’ extension cord) 
and stayed dry through three days of 
rain. 
Very functional and 
nice. 
I’ve been doing a series of Water-Bubbles for the NYC Parks Depart- 
ment. 
Their Festival Truck goes to street fairs and provides stages, 
PA, lites, and Bubbles. 
We lay down the red carpet (non-woven 
polypropylene, $1.75/sq. yd. from Ozite Corp.), inflate zoomy 
16 guage vinyl bubbles with 5000 CFM blower mounted on the 
truck, tie the anchor ropes to parking meters, lite poles, fire hydrants, 
etc., attach 1” hose to fire hydrant & 3-way distribution system: 
one to overhead sprinkler hoses, one to floor sprinkler hoses, one to 
4-way direct spray. Add 150 kazoos, cowbells, claves, tambourines 
——and turn the kids loose inside. They really give it a workout—— 
the carpet protects the bubbles and the kids when they slide and 
fall. I try to get them involved in putting it up and down. Some do, 
some don’t. The first model was in 8 guage vinyl—it almost 
worked, but would usually rip after 
a few hours. I really hate to tell 
them “Don’t...”. 
I think the new model will take about anything 
except knives. Even in Hunt’s Point and Lower East Side, no knives 
attacked it. 
Now we’re in Columbia Maryland working on the Antioch project 
to put this campus in a 1-acre inflatable using the Goodyear system 
——12 guage vinyl reinforced with steel cables with internal drain- 
age points. The site slopes 15%. 
We'll do earthwork——direct 
ramming and CINVA Ram——to form an earth berm and interior 
spaces. Probably also have foamed interior structures. 
Soutcoast 
is here working on a prototype. Some hassles in zoning, air con- 
ditioning, financing——we’re working on a grant from Educational 
Facilities Labs, (Ford Foundation). Project has a fairly high reality- 
feel about it. I’m working on getting the vinyl metalized—to cut 
down heat gain. Maybe put silver mylar on the vinyl The structure 
will have a double skin for insulation. 
This makes some problems 
on duct connections. 
But it opens up the possibility of sculpting 
the “ceiling” 
at will by varying the skin spacing. Goodyear is 
opening up their research department to us. The whole thing is an 
order of magnitude of complexity higher than the poly bubbles. 
But it’s still more and better for less. 
FINE tape source: 
Arista Custom Tapes 
Foot of Farm Road 
Secaucus, New Jersey 
Phone 201-864-3131 
Mr. Zymler has been most cooperative and friendly. The tape we 
usually buy is 5 mil vinyl, $1.29 per inch of width for 36 yard rolls, 
in many colors, all good (red, yellow, blue, green, white, black, 
orange, and others) in case lots. He’ll sell as few rolls as you 
need——15% more for less than a case——fast service——2 days by 
UPS in NYC area, and ships by air. The tape can be cut in any 
pig I’ve been ordering 3’’ and taping both sides, for heavy-use 
stuff. 
A source for screw-in earth anchors: 
A.B. Chance Co. 
Jersey Avenue 
New Brunswick, New Jersey 
$6.15 for an 8” helix on 1”’ x 60” shaft, will hold 10,000 Ibs in 
normal soil. 
Charlie Tilford 
Inflatoenvironmentologist 
a 
it 
ee 
eget 
A 
FUNKY GENERATORS EAT FAN MOTORS 
ee 
BLOWER 
24 
rap poly 
WY 
KD 
vig, stake 
FRAMED EDGE 
GES 
A dit cut 
acress 
the wrinkles will 
)
tend to spread 
open and leak. 
air 
Not recommended 
Yvyd \\ Las 
The personal history that’s still alive in my memory begins 
when I was twenty-two. When I was twenty-two | thought that 
what | wanted more than anytning in all the world was to be a 
scholar, a student of literature, an expert on the metaphysical 
poets with particular emphasis on John Donne. 
| had a bachelor’s 
degree but that didn’t seem like enough. | felt like I'd got that 
degree without ever really reading anything, without ever really 
learning how to read. | wanted to read, to study, to experience 
the words of the masters. 
It seemed like such a gentle thing. 
The library, the department, the lectures, all were images of 
utmost 
quiet and tranquility to me then, and | wanted nothing 
more thah 
to be quiet, to read and write and think, to live the 
classic life of the mind right hefe in the middle of the Twentieth 
Century. 
Graduate school was good the first year. 
| did okay in the 
classes, and | was into some personal writing that satisfied me. 
| didn’t take myself seriously as a writer, you understand. 
But 
| enjoyed it, it was expression, and | felt like | had a whole lot 
to express. 
| remember writing a short story about a flower, a 
daffodil that learned how to sing. Every afternoon the daffodil 
would give a concert for all the other flowers in the meadow. 
The story was published in the campus literary magazine and a 
lot of people told me they thought it was pretty good. 
The problem with my career as a scholar was the Master's 
Thesis. 
| did well in the lecture courses and seminars, but | just 
couldn't hack that thesis. The reason | couldn't hack it was! 
really didn’t want to write a thesis. 
I'd sit down and try to write 
about the metaphysical poets and every time I'd wind up saying 
stuff about myself. 
| worked over a year on that paper, and when 
I'd finished | had three hundred pages that simply told my life 
story from birth through graduate school. Of course | knew the 
professors wouldn't accept the manuscript as a thesis, so what 
| did was have it typed up professionally, and bound to look like 
all the other theses on the shelf. And one day | sneaked into the 
stacks and when nobody was looking | slipped it up on the shelf 
and left it there. Then a few weeks later | left the University, 
| left Norman altogether and entered the next phase of my life’s 
adventure. 
‘ 
(continyed) 
Inflatables 
Shelter 
