atalog 
faa: 
rom: 
elty Pack 
801 Victory Boulevard 
jlendale, California 91202 
JanSport Packs 
his is the review we received of JanSport packs from 
Dennis Hollenberg. 
4 remarkable system because its oval design and weldless 
construction allow the Jan Sport pack frame to flex when 
strained by shocks and heavy loads, avoiding the sad 
broken-parallelogram demise of some ladder types. 
Each frame section of tubular aluminum ‘is swaged and fitted 
an admirably craftsman-like manner and compressed 
to’ its mate by a tensional system of webbed nylon belts. 
The frame system is in dynamic equilibrium, continuously 
accomodating the load for more dependable balance; 
a special model is made for the high angle freaks. 
Hefty machined blocks connect the cross pieces, enabling 
both easy height adjustment and disassembly to fit in a 
Suitcase for that Himalayan assualt. In fact, it has more 
provisions for adjustment than any other unit. Packing 
with a Jan Sport is like getting an extra pair of arms. 
—DH 
we sent for a pack, tried it a little, and decided it 
was a quality pack, so we got in touch with Murray Pletz, 
Ir. JanSport, and asked him to work up a series of good 
packs for us. here’s what he came up with. it looks to be 
the best deal in packs we’ve seen. everything in forest green. 
jd 
from: 
Jan Sport Company 
17010 Aurora North 
Seattle, Washington 98133 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
oleman Lanterns & Stoves 
‘Coleman lamps are terrible——they hiss clank and blind you, 
just like civilization.” 
Fact is: when the man says they blind you, what he’s really 
saying is that they put out a lot of light. In most circles this 
is considered a plus. The big drag is that the bright light 
attracts everything that flies, every moth and his cousin for a 
adius of a mile comes to circle around your lantern. Simple 
remedy: buy yourself 
an amber glass (just $1.99 at big 5 
sport stores). Softens the light, doesn’t attract bugs——at 
least not too many. 
ome to think of it, | guess Coleman lanterns, stoves, etc. 
Geserve a praisworthy word from you folks. 
I’ve owned the same 
gasoline lantern for at least 15 years, and going strong. |'m 
about to replace the stove——with another Coleman, but that’s 
because I'm messy, and too lazy to clean it. It is interesting to 
note that other companies have marketed similar products in 
recent years, but have not at all improved upon the original 
design that Coleman has been selling. Also, Coleman sells replace- 
ent parts. You can buy a new generator pipe or valve, and get 
another 15 years of use out of a lantern or stove. This is unusual 
or an American co. 
Bernard Altshuler 
Los Angeles, CA 
Outcoor Suppliers 
An excellent list of practically all mail order outdoor 
uppliers (many more than we list) may be got from: 
ppalachian Trail Club 
er 
Developed primarily for expedition work, 
the MODEL BB5 is a very large, open- 
style packbag. 
It is made with increased 
profile and equipped with five large out- 
side pockets. Do not order this packbag 
model unless you actually need the capa 
city it offers. 
Model BB5 available in 
three sizes only — 
see chart 
Colors: Olive Green or Red 
See Page 7 for order information 
Upper pockets: 31% x 614 x9" — 11° zipper 
Lower pockets: 234x6 
x6 — 
9° zipper 
Back pocket: 
234x11 x14—14 zipper 
*7% for medium packbay 
Price: $29.75 
Weight in ounces — includes packhog Jittings 
(Hold-Open Frame. pins and wires) 
Volume or cubic inches - 
includes copacity of pockets 
Dimensions. in thehes, are approximate 
(holding 
the dark 
in 
the shape 
of trees) 
first 
then 
two, 
then 
several 
Earthscout pack: 
$32.00 postpaid 
(middle range all purpose 
packing and hitchhiking) 
Earthchild pack: 
$20.00 
postpaid 
(for kids and little people 
in general) 
Earthexplorer pack: 
$45.00 
postpaid 
(Superpack for serious 
packing, putting your 
Rucksack 
household on your back) 
Adventure 16 Pack Kit 
Something you might want to logk at for the Nomadics; 
Adventure 16 backpack and trail supplies 10056 Bert 
Acosta Drive, Santee, Calif 92071. 
Their strong point 
is their Kit-pak, which is what it says— bent aluminum 
tubing, fittings and rivits and all the nylon material, cords, 
zippers, grommets, etc. to make a pack. The pack is large, 
and there’s enough material left over to make two extra 
pockets. 
[n my 
opinion the belt arrangement is superior 
to Sierra Designs. 
There’s a lot of work involved getting 
it together—especially if you don’t know sewing-ese. 
But what you have upon completion is a pack that is far 
better than those selling for $50 and equal to those selling 
for $65-75. Cost of kit: $16.95 (with pattern), $14.95 
(without pattern). 
/nvestigate! 
[Reviewed by Tim Kelly] 
Haverhill’s 
Nifty items. High-rent personal furniture. 
Haverhill’s carries sort of executive tools 
which because of their general lightness and 
handiness may be considered nomadic. 
The 
main drawback about Haverhill’s is their 
custo:ners, who brag a lot about the nifty 
little items. 
‘See. You turn it around and it 
rubs your back. 
Then in here it has a caché 
for pills. | carry it with me all the time now. 
Why don’t you get one? It’s only forty-two 
dollars.’ 
—SB 
Haverhill’s Catalog 
[Suggested by Alan Kalker] 
free 
from: 
Haverhill’s 
584 Washington Street 
San Francisco, CA 9411} 
MAYBE VIRGIL LEAVES 
After a while D.R. realized he was on the bed again, and that 
the bus was moving. He didn’t remember leaving the front seat, 
but what was more confusing, it seemed dark outside again. D.R. 
rolled to the edge of the mattress and looked up through the 
window at the sky. The clouds were there, but the sky was dark 
as midnight, there wasn’t even a speck of moon to light them up. 
When D.R. looked toward the front of the bus to remark about 
the light, he saw Virgil sitting behind the wheel, and David in 
the other seat beside him. D.R. almost yelled then, but before 
he could the bus slowed down and stopped at the junction where 
the road to Blaine came into 666. D.R. listened as David offered 
to drive Virgil on in to Blaine. Virgil thanked him, but said he 
believed he'd rather walk. He only had three miles to go, but it 
was a long time till his appointment at the welfare office, and 
he was just as glad to have that far to walk to pass the tirhe away. 
Virgil and David shook hands. When Virgil set out walking down 
the road toward Blaine, David shifted gears and headed down the 
final fifteen miles to Godsey’s Grocery Store. 
Packs 
Nomadics 
* 
s 
