says 
the dolla 
‘was arrived at by superimpo: 
U and the S of United States. 
Means US. 
. 
aiké not a 
rar 
i 
L 
al 
ay 
: 
Alot »f people come to Portola looking for shelter here for 
their educa ional or other do-good project. Mostly we advise 
ces 
them 
to start 
their own scene. 
— 
eae, 
: 
: 
- 
appropriate state agency. Sometime during this period also, you will 
PwRPURUREROR 
CRORE 
R 
CEU 
SEEPS EUR 
We 
asked the Law Commune in Palo Alto to write up the 
want to apply to the Internal Revenue Service and to the appropriate 
; 
basic information, which follows. 
—SB 
state agency for a determination that the corporation will be exempt 
“\f there are no complicated tax problems, 
the attorney should 
— 
a 
from taxes. On the average, if there are no complicated tax problems, 
laa Lh ahi 
iow 
agchebn month. A ruling 
ste 
= 
i 
i <r 
rom the 
should 
take 
about three wee 
s more, once 
eed 
a SOME PRELIMINARY QUESTONS AND ANSWERS 
ae eee a =e wey erspars seh ly to charitable 
incorporation is completed. The most important factor in 
~ Smeg 
=: 
* 
is answer, and 
subsequent 
answers 
app) 
ini 
h of ti 
rything 
will take is how 
quickly = 
ABOUT NON PROFIT CORPO RATI ONS 
organizations such as the March of Dimes, whose regulation is both 
er 
eae CREME EVERY 
9 
: 
q 
vars Ra: 
What 
i. 
t 
tion? 
different and a great deal more detailed. Also, California considers 
—Charlie 
Aerator LOPS COT OER Er 
> 
co-operatives to be a special type of nonprofit corporation, and has 
A corporation is a separate legal entity which the law allows to be 
special rules concerning their formation. Unlike other corporations, 
created for the purpose of doing business. In the eyes of the law, a 
the state does not give the parties freedom to choose their own 
corporation is a separate “person” who has its own debts, owns its 
Articles and by-laws, instead it specifies such things as what type 
property, and pays its own taxes, and who, unless dissolved by its 
ot officers there will be and how they are elected. However, a co- 
owners, lives forever. Nonprofit means that none of the owners, or 
operative is also allowed to distribute some types of dividends to 
“members” receive any financial gain or profit from the work being 
its members. There is another special incorporating procedure 
One Dollar Lawyer 
carried on by the corporation. This does not mean that officers and 
which allows the head of a religious organization to act himself ina 
employees of the corporation do not receive salaries, it means that 
corporate capacity. |t is called a ‘‘corporation sale”’. 
a nonprofit corporation does not have “‘investors’’ who in the case 
of a regular corporation would buy stocks or bonds in the corpor- 
ation and receive a dividend or some other financial return on their 
investment. Instead of selling stock to stockholders, who are the 
“owners” of a regular corporation, a nonprofit corporation sells or 
gives ‘memberships’ to members. These members do not receive 
dividends but they do perform the acts of ownership normally 
carried out by the stockholders, such as electing the board of 
directors. The Board of Directors have the duty of watching over the 
business of the corporation, making the major decisions, and of hiring 
the officers of the corporation such as the president, general manager, 
and executive secretary who carry out the day-to-day business of the 
corporation. 
What are the advantages of forming a nonprofit corporation? 
Some of us choose to deal with money. 
The best book I have 
found on the subject is How To Avoid Financial Tangles by 
= 
Kenneth G. Masteller. 
This book is not quite as good as havinga 
lawyer, but then I talk to a lawyer frequently and I learned a lot 
reading this book. 
(I have the one volume edition so the 
following may be a little mixed up.) 
Volume I is on property, 
Joint ownership, Automobile and Fire insurance, and financial 
relationships. 
Volume II is on Wills (including directions for 
making, signing, and witnessing a will), life insurance, and Income, 
Estate, Inheritance, and Gift taxes. 
Volume III is for widows. 
You 
can do most of the legal bit yourself with this book, and if you 
need to see a lawyer, you know why and what to talk about. 
$1.00 per volume from American Institute for Economic Research, 
;
Great Barrington, Mass. 01230. 
Please note I am not recommending 
, 
their books on investing. 
The only complaint I have is that this 
ay 
I
;
;
Once the corporation has been formed, you will not have to file any 
continuing types of reports other than tax returns. The only 
exception is if it becomes necessary to amend the Articles of Incorpor- 
ation, which shouldn’t happen unless the corporation goes through 
some type of major changes in its purpose for existence. 
Could you explain more about the tax angles? 
As was mentioned before, the Internal Revenue Service will tell you 
before you begin operating as a corporation whether you qualify for 
the various tax exemptions available to nonprofit corporations. This 
saves you the trouble of going through the whole procedure of 
formation, if you aren’t going to get tax advantages. 
Federal exemptions for nonprofit coporations are set up in specific 
categories. The most advantageous category is for ‘‘religious’’, 
“charitable”, and ‘‘educational”’ organizations. Not only is the income 
of corporations within this category tax exempt, but unlike all the 
other categories, persons making donations to these corporations 
may receive tax deductions on their personal income tax. However, 
corporations in this category have a very important limitation on 
their activities; they may not participate in any political campaign, 
lobby for specific legislation, or otherwise engage in active political 
activity. This is the reason that the IRS has taken away the Sierra 
Club’s tax exemption. 
used to be available for $1.00 total, and these people are always 
The advantages of operating through a corporate structure are all 
screaming about inflation. 
based on the concept of the corporation's being aseparate person. 
As a separate person the corporation remains no matter what 
individuals come and go. Most important, the corporation's 
liabilities are separate from those of its owners or employees. Thus 
< 
the corporation’s debts cannot be collected from any of the individuals 
connected with the corporation, unless a creditor can persuade a 
court that somebody set up the corporation for the sole purpose of 
dodging personal debts. If the corporation goes broke nobody can get 
at the personal possessions or money of the corporation’s members. 
Walter Groch 
Berkeley, Calif. 
If an employee of the corporation causes serious damage in a traffic 
All the other categories allow the tax exemption for the corporation's 
accident, the corporation will have to pay damages, but none of the 
income but do not allow donors to deduct their contributions. These 
7 
other employees and none of the owners will have to pay the damages, _ categories include organizations dedicated to ‘‘social welfare”’, 
even if the corporation itself is unable to pay. 
business leagues, social clubs, labor and agricultural organizations, credit 
unions, and farmers cooperatives. Exemptions from state income taxes 
usually are modeled on the federal laws. For most of these categories, 
any ‘unrelated business’ carried on by the corporation as a subsidiary 
to its main purposes, for example a college bookstore, is 
subject 
to tax on its income. (Whole Earth pays taxes on its store and mail- 
The advantages of making the corporation nonprofit has to do with 
tax status. As a separate person, a regular corporation must pay its 
own taxes on its income, but if a nonprofit corporation qualifies 
under Federal standards, it does not pay income taxes. Thus if a labor 
Emmit felt his face. He rubbed his cheek with his hand, then 
both cheeks at once with both his hands, and finished smiling. Did 
you do that? he asked. 
union or an educational magazine, both of which are nonprofit 
xu 
e 
corporations, have more money coming in than is going out, neither 
order operation.) 
will have to pay the usual corporate income tax. Again, this 
In California, a few types of nonprofit corporations are also exempt 
Yep. 
corporate income shouldn't be confused with the salaries of 
from property taxes, these are, religious, hospital, charitable, 
individual employees which are still subject to personal income tax. 
scientific, and some types of higher education institutions. For all of 
° 
Another tax advantage is that individuals who donate money to 
these tax exemptions, the corporation will be required to file detailed 
Are you the one in charge here? 
, 
certain nonprofit corporations can receive personal tax deductions 
informational tax returns showing that the corporation is not 
for their donations. 
violating its exemption. Of course, if the RS or state agency feel that 
e 
Another advantage of a corporation is that its very 
existence lends 
the corporation has violated its exemption, it will investigate 
D.R. said he was. 
stability and respectability to your enterprise, Sapeeiatiy intheeyesof 
further and if not satisffed will remove the exemption for a period of 
people like bankers and local storekeepers who hand out things in 
time until the violation has ended. 
~ 
credit, 
How much of a problem is it to dissolve the corporation? 
Can I dream away the sky? 
e 
What are the disadvantages of having 
a nonprofit corporation? 
ges 
of 
of 
profi 
TP. 
A corporation remains legally alive unless the formal procedures of 
dissolution are carried out. Thus if you form a corporation and later 
it ceases to do any business or carry out any activity, that in itself will 
not dissolve it. Since the members are considered the owners of the 
corporation voluntary dissolution can only occur when 50% of the 
members vote to dissolve. A formal certificate must be filed with the 
appropriate state agency showing that such a vote has occurred. The 
Board of directors must then follow a set of procedures spelled out in 
the laws. This process is called ‘‘winding up” and includes terminating 
business relationships, paying all bills, and dividing up whatever is 
left over among the members. The.corporation then ceases to exist 
once a certificate of winding_up and dissolution has been filed with 
the appropriate state and county agencies. Like formation, you will 
probably have to hire a lawyer to do your dissolution . 
You can dream away the sky and fill the gap with blossoms, 
Emmit. You can do anything you feel of a mind to do, old friend. 
You will have the initial expense of forming the corporation. 
Although there are manuals available most groups will have to hire a 
lawyer to do the legal work and he/she will charge a minimum of 
several hundred dollars unless you can persuade him/her to do the 
incorporation as a public service (not likely). As a corporation you 
will have to keep careful financial records and file detailed tax 
returns concerning the corporation's finances. Incorporation means 
that you must in some way show proof of observance of specific 
regulations and formalities, for example, regular meetings of a 
board of directors; it also means someone will be watching to see that 
you do things like make payroll deductions, pay unemployment 
insurance taxes, etc. 
I'll dream the sky away and think about the honey-pond and 
fritter-tree, Emmit said. That’s a land, you know. 
| might dream along with you after while, said D.R. I'm pretty 
sleepy. 
e 
Don't go to sleep, said Emmit. That'd violate the other custom. 
There are other less tangible drawbacks. Persons working for the cor- 
There are also several types of procedures for getting a court to order 
poration will have to act with a high degree of care, since their actions 
dissolution. These are generally termed involuntary dissolution 
e 
can put the assets of the whole corporation at stake, for example in 
and are of course expensive since they go through a court. The. 
the traffic situation described above. Incorporation means your 
directors of 1/3 of the members may ask the court to dissolve if the 
What custom is that, Emmit? 
enterprise will have a higher degree of visibility both with the 
corporation has not done any business for a year, if there has been 
e 
community and the government. The existence of a corporation may 
serious mismanagement, or if there is a serious deadlock among the 
increase the likelihood of its being sued. For this reason, 
dlvestors: 
A trustworthy man on guard! said Emmit, and for the first time 
most labor unions are not incorporated. Certain people such as internal 
since they'd been there, he laughed 
: 
revenue agents and the state attorney general will have the right to be 
What alternatives to formation of a nonprofit corporation are there? 
: 
é 
snooping into your affairs, if they think you are violating the 
© 
ae ie aig in your Articles of Incorporation or to check out any 
The most important alternative form of enterprise is a nonprofit un- 
D.R. tried to tell Estelle about it, the shave, and Emmit's fa 
information in your tax returns. 
incorporated association. The main difference is that the association 
so much like his father’s. But that a too 
rti I 
cS 
What 
Ws anche 
s 
: 
hs 
: 
san 
has no separate legal existence. Thus any debts and other liabilities of 
thing for him to have eno 
ane t 
as Wig 
sha 
at exactly is involved 
in formation of 
the nonprofit corporation? 
the association can be collected from the individual active members of | 
3 
Mee 
bahucha 
heat 
nat ne iat pee weoghe 
i 
i 
A 
the association. As was noted in the case of labor unions, this may 
bee 
tls 
a mest aoe Moke a sae org seen 
s was already stated, you will almost always have to hire a lawyer to 
be an advantage. Futhermore, the modern trend of the law has been to| 
@5-_He said, one of the men in Emmit’s ward has been here four 
do the formation, but you should have aclear understanding of what 
give associations many of the advantages formally held only by 
months now, and another almost three, and | know that to them a 
he/she is up to. First you will have to select a name for your 
corporations. For example, associations can now own some types of 
day and a half can’t seem like a very long time. But it’s some kind 
corporation and register it with the state---in California, specifically 
the office of the secretary of state. You will have to choose three or 
more people to act as ‘‘Incorporators”. Their duties are to sign the 
articles of incorporation, and act as the board of directors at the 
first meeting of the board of directors. They may then resign and 
elect a new set of directors who will act as the board from then on, or 
they may themselves continue to act as directors. It should be noted 
by any potential directors, that they are required to exercise reasonable 
care in running the corporation and if they fail they may be held 
legally responsible for mismanagement. 
Property in their own name, and can sue and be sued in their own 
name. Associations may apply for the various federal and state tax 
exemptions in the same way that a corporation would. 
of infinity for me. | haven't slept at all except little naps in my 
chair, and once last night for about an hour lying on a gurney in the 
hall. It’s very informal at night. It’s a small place, and nobody ever 
=. 
comes on heavy much. You can stretch out where ever you can at 
night and nobody seems to mind. 
| have the keenest sense of this 
place as a secret city hidden from the world. And all the people in 
it are perpetually stoned on the activity of the city, which is suffer- 
ing, and coping with suffering. Some of the suffering is birth and 
some of it is death, and endless different points in between. After a 
day and a half here, round the clock, | feel as if we've all been here 
all our lives, together, as if we're all warm and comfortable inside 
this strange cloak. It’s like I’m wearing this hospital, as if its atmos- 
;
phere and its routines, night and day and day and night, people 
coming and going, the change of shifts, the long passing of the night 
: 
and then the day, is all some kind of magnificent garment I've put 
‘
on. And Emmit is in it with me. We're all in it, doctors, patients, 
st
nurses, visitors, secretaries, everybody, and it's as if we all like being 
‘
here in one another's company, collectively 
yaa 
Law Commune 
347 Alma Street 
Palo Alto, Ca. 94301 
You will also draw up Articles of Incorporation. The law requires that 
these articles contain the name of the corporation, the names of the 
incorporators, and the county 
where the principle place of business 
is to be located. Most important these articles must state the specific 
primary use or purposes for which the corporation was formed. These 
Purposes must be carefully chosen since they are the most important 
consideration in determining whether the corporation will be granted 
Except for tax questions, which concern the federal government, 
state has its own laws regarding corporations. These answers are 
d on California law, but at least in regards to these general 
, the reader 
can assume that his state has similar or analogous 
Non-Profit 
Communications 
