recycles from highest illuminations to the stillness of 
dreamless sleep; the alchemical ‘‘transmutation.”” 
II. CONSUMPTION 
THE CONDITION 
Position: Everything that lives eats food, and is food in 
turn. This complicated animal, man, rests on a vast and 
delicate pyramid of energy-transformations. To grossly use 
more than you need, to destroy, is biologically unsound. 
Most of the production and consumption of modern 
societies is not necessary or conducive to spiritual and 
cultural growth, let alone survival; and is behind much greed 
and envy, age-old causes of social and international discord. 
Situation: Man’s careless use of ‘‘resources’’ and his total 
dependence on certain substances such as fossil fuels (which 
are being exhausted, slowly but certainly) are having harm- 
ful effects on all the other members of the life-network. 
The complexity of modern technology renders whole popu- 
lations vulnerable to the deadly consequences of the loss 
of any one key resource. 
Instead of independence we have 
over-dependence on life-giving substances such as water, 
which we squander. Many species of animals and birds 
have become extinct in the service of fashion fads——or 
fertilizer——or industrial oil——the soil is being used up; 
in fact mankind has become a locust-like blight on the 
planet that will leave a bare cupboard for its own children—— 
all the while in a kind of Addict’s Dream of affluence, 
comfort, eternal progress——using the great achievements 
of science to produce software and swill. 
Goal: Balance, harmony, humility, growth which is a 
mutual growth with Redwood and Quail (would you want 
your child to grow up without ever hearing a wild bird?) 
——to be a good member of the great community of 
living creatures. True affluence is not needing anything. 
ACTION 
Social/political: 
\t must be demonstrated ceaselessly that a 
continually ‘growing economy” is no longer healthy, but a 
Cancer. And that the criminal waste which is allowed in 
the name of competition——especially that ultimate in 
wasteful needless competition, hot wars and cold wars with 
“communism” (or ‘‘capitalism’’)——must be halted totally 
with ferocious energy and decision. Economics must be 
seen as a small sub-branch of Ecology, and production/ 
distribution/consumption handled by companies or unions 
with the same elegance and spareness one sees in nature. 
Soil banks; open space; phase out logging in most areas. 
“Lightweight dome and honeycomb structures in line with 
the architectural principles of nature.” ‘‘We shouldn't use 
wood for housing because trees are too important.”” Pro- 
tection for all predators and varmints: ‘‘Support your 
right to arm bears.” Damn the International Whaling 
Commission which is selling out the last of our precious, 
wise whales! Absolutely no further development of roads 
and concessions in National Parks and Wilderness Areas; 
build auto campgrounds in the least desirable areas. Plan 
consmuer boycotts in response to dishonest and unneces- 
sary products. Radical Co-ops. Politically, blast both 
“Communist” and “‘Capitalist’’ myths of progress, and all 
crude notions of conquering or controlling nature. 
The community: Sharing and creating. The inherent 
aptness of communal life——where large tools are owned 
jointly and used efficiently. The power of renunciation: 
If enough Americans refused to buy a new car for one 
given year it would permanently alter the American 
economy. Recycling clothes and equipment. Support 
handicrafts, gardening, home skills, midwifery, herbs——all 
the things that can make us independent, beautiful and 
THE HUMANITY OF THE LONE OUTDOORSMAN 
There were at least three things the Lone Outdoorsman could 
have done in response to the filthy crime he saw happen on the 
big rock by the river. He could have shot big holes in the young 
couple's arms and legs and heads and backs with his .357 magnum 
pistol. Or he could have gone to his camper, got his rubber life 
raft out of his fourteen foot aluminum motorboat, launched it a 
mile upstream and staged an amphibious assault upon the little 
beach near the rocks and captured them before they knew what 
was happening. Or—— and admittedly this is a big or; it’s big 
because, as it turns out, the Lone Outdoorsman is far from your 
ordinary, everyday one-dimensional heavy; the thing that redeems 
the Lone Outdoorsman is a refreshing mental complexity of a 
kind you don’t ordinarily run into in folktales. All mixed in with 
his gory mental images of bullet-riddled bodies and heroic assaults 
upon beachheads was 2 commendable impulse to be nice to these 
kids, to befriend them and hopefully influence them in some con- 
structive way. In short, the Lone Outdoorsman could either shoot 
these kids, assault them from the river and take them captive, or 
else be a good neighbor and invite Divine Right and Estelle over 
to his place for supper. 
And so when D.R. and Estelle had finished balling, had dressed 
and folded the serape and walked back through the darkening 
campground to their own scene, they found the Lone Outdoorsman 
leaning against Urge’s front, waiting for them. 
whole. Learn to break the habit of unnecessary possessions 
——a monkey on everybody’s back——but avoid a self- 
abnegating anti-joyous self-righteousness. Simplicity is 
light, carefree, neat and loving——not a self-punishing 
ascetic trip. (The great Chinese poet Tu Fu said ‘’The 
ideas of a poet should be noble and simple.”’) Don’t shoot 
a deer if you don’t know how to use all the meat and 
preserve that which you can’t eat, to tan the hide and use 
the leather——to use it all, with gratitude, right down to the 
sinew and hooves. Simplicity and mindfulness in diet is a 
starting point for many people. 
Our own heads: 
\t is hard to even begin to gauge how much 
a complication of possessions, the notions of ‘‘my and 
mine,” stand between us and a true, clear, liberated way of 
seeing the world. To live lightly on the earth, to be aware 
and alive, to be free of egotism, to be in contact with plants 
and animals, starts with simple concrete acts. The inner 
principle is the insight that we are inter-dependent energy- 
fields of great potential wisdom and compassion——express- 
ed in each person as a superb mind, a handsome and 
complex body, and the almost magical capacity of 
language. To these potentials and capacities, ““owning 
things’’ can add nothing of authenticity. ‘Clad in the sky, 
with the earth for a pillow.” 
IV. TRANSFORMATION 
THE CONDITION 
Position: Everyone is the result of four forces: 
the con- 
ditions of this known-universe (matter/energy forms and 
ceaseless change); the biology of his species; his individual 
genetic heritage and the culture he’s born into. Within this 
web of forces there are certain spaces and loops which allow 
total freedom and illumination. The gradual exploration of 
some of these spaces is ‘“‘evolution’’ and, for human cultures, 
what “‘history” could be. We have it within our deepest 
powers not only to change our “‘selves’’ but to change our 
culture. 
If man is to remain on earth he must transform the 
five-millenia-long urbanizing civilization tradition into a 
new ecologically-sensitive harmony-oriented wild-minded 
scientific/spiritual culture. ‘‘Wildness is the state of com- 
plete awareness. That’s why we need it.” 
Situation: 
Civilization, which has made us so successful a 
species, has overshot itself and now threatens us with its 
inertia. There is some evidence that civilized life isn’t good 
for the human gene pool. To achieve the Changes we must 
change the very foundations of our society and our minds. 
Goal: Nothing short of total transformation will do much 
good. What we envision is a planet on which the human 
population lives harmoniously and dynamically by employ- 
ing a sophisticated and unobtrusive technology in a world 
environment which is “left natural.“’Specific points in this 
vision: 
* 
A healthy and spare population of all races, much less in 
number than today. 
Cultural and individual pluralism, unified by a type of 
world tribal council. Division by natural and cultural 
boundaries rather than arbitrary political boundaries. 
A technology of communication, education, and quiet 
transportation, land-use being sensitive to the properties 
of each region. Allowing, thus, the Bison to return to 
much of the high plains. Careful but intensive agricul- 
ture in the great alluvial valleys; deserts left wild for 
those who would trot in them. Computer technicians 
who run the plant part of the year and walk along with 
the Elk in their migrations during the rest. 
A basic cultural outlook and social organization that 
inhibits power and property-seeking while encouraging 
exploration and challenge in things like music, 
meditation, mathematics, mountaineering, magic, and 
all other ways of authentic being-in-the-world. Women 
a —. 
THE INVITATION 
“Well,”” he said, ““how are you young folks this evening. 
Feeling all right? What | thought was the two of you all might 
like to come over and eat supper with me, | mean it looks like 
you all have been traveling pretty hard, and maybe not eating 
too well, and since I’ve got these steaks, yes sir, four of the 
juiciest steaks you ever sunk your fangs in, buddy, that ain’t 
no lie. And I’d be mighty pleased to have your company, you 
know I've got a niece and a nephew about your age, my brother's 
kids, the wife and me, we had a kid but he died, but my brother's 
kids, now, | tell you, they’re all right. They come out from 
Little Rock about once a year, and we appreciate seeing ‘em, 
| declare we do. You know, a lot of the older folks now, they 
ain’t got much patience with young people these days, they ob- 
ject to the way they behave. 
And | guess in some things | do 
too. 
But my grandfather was a big influence on me, and what 
he believed in was giving people a second chance. | take after 
Granddaddy in that respect. 
| guess when it comes to being 
with people and judging ‘em, I’m what you'd call a liberal. 
For 
| find a lot of good in young people nowadays, | declare | do. 
Why shit, all the young people need is to get out in the hills 
totally free and equal. A new kind of family——respon- 
sible, but more festive and relaxed——is implicit. 
ACTION 
Social/political: 
\t seems evident that there are throughout 
the world certain social and religious forces which have 
worked through history toward an ecologically and cul- 
turally enlightened state of affairs. Let these be encouraged: 
Gnostics, hip Marxists, Teilhard de Chardin Catholics, 
Druids, Taoists, Biologists, Witches, Yogins, Bhikkus, 
Quakers, Sufis, Tibetans, Zens, Shamans, Bushmen, 
American Indians, Polynesians, Anarchists, Alchemists. 
. 
. 
the list is long. All primitive cultures, all communal and 
ashram movements. Since it doesn’t seem practical or even 
desirable to think that direct bloody force will achieve 
much, it would be best to consider this a continuing 
“revolution of consciousness” which will be won not by 
guns but by seizing the key images, myths, arche-types, 
eschatologies, and ecstasies so that life won't seem worth 
living unless one’s on the transforming energy’s side. By 
taking over “‘science and technology” and releasing its 
real possibilities and powers in the service of this planet—— 
which, after all, produced us and it. 
The community: New schools, new classes, walking in the 
woods and cleaning up the streets. Find psychological 
techniques for creating an awareness of “‘self’’ which in- 
cludes the social and natural environment. “Consideration 
of what specific language forms——symbolic systems——and 
social institutions constitute obstacles to ecological 
awareness.” Without falling into a facile interpretation of 
McLuhan, we can hope to use the media. Let no one be 
ignorant of the facts of biology and related disciplines; 
bring up our children as part of the wild-life. Some 
communities can establish themselves in back-water rural 
areas and flourish——others maintain themselves in urban 
centers, and the two types work together——a two-way 
flow of experience, people, money and home-grown 
vegetables. Ultimately cities will exist only as joyous tribal 
gatherings and fairs, to dissolve after a few weeks. 
Investi- 
gating new life-styles is our work, as is the exploration 
of Ways to explore our inner realms——with the known 
dangers of crashing that go with such. We would work with 
political-minded people where it helps, hoping to enlarge 
their vision, and with people of all varieties of politics 
or thought at whatever point.they become aware of environ- 
ment urgencies. Master the archaic and the primitive as 
models of basic nature-related cultures——as well as the most 
imaginative extensions of science——and build a community 
where these two vectors cross. 
Our own heads: 
\|s where it starts. Knowing that we are the 
first human beings in history to have all of man’s culture 
and previous experience available to our study, and being 
free enough of the weight of traditional cultures to seek out 
a larger identity.——The first members of a civilized society 
since the early Neolithic to wish to look clearly into the 
eyes of the wild and see our self-hood, our family, there. 
We have these advantages to set off the obvious disadvan- 
tages of being as screwed up as we are——which gives us a 
fair chance to penetrate some of the riddles of ourselves 
and the universe, and to go beyond the idea of ‘‘man’s 
survival”’ or ‘‘the survival of the biosphere’ and to draw our 
strength from the realization that at the heart of things is 
some kind of serene and ecstatic process which is actually 
beyond qualities and certainly beyond birth-and-death. 
“‘No need to survive!’’ 
“‘In the fires that destroy the universe 
at the end of the kalpa, what survives?’””"——“The iron tree 
blooms in the void!” 
Knowing that nothing need be done, is where we begin to 
move from. 
and romp around some. 
| grew up on the land and | know how 
good it is for you. 
Why when I was a kid | could hunt and track, 
why I'd go out by myself for days at a time when | was ten and 
twelve years old. 
| loved it, there just wasn’t anything greater 
than getting off to myself in the hills with my gun. 
I’ve always 
said | was born a hundred years too late. 
| ought to of been a 
Pioneer. 
The wife, she don’t like to get out much, so two or 
three times a year | just cut loose by myself and go live out in 
nature a few days. 
As my granddaddy would say, nature's good 
for what ails you. 
Ajin’t that what you all say?” 
Estelle mumbled that that was what she said too. 
Divine 
Right said something and the Lone Outdoorsman said something 
else. 
But five minutes later they didn’t have the faintest idea 
how the conversation had ended. 
The vision of steak crowded 
everything else out of their head except the smoke from the 
horrendous joint D.R. rolled, in celebration of the party. 
Giggling, tumbling around in the bus trying to get dressed and 
smoke dope and hug and kiss all at the same time, D.R. and 
Estelle were ecstatic. 
Every kink in them had been ironed out 
by their wonderful hour on the rock. 
And now here they were, 
getting all dressed up and stoned, about to go eat free steak with 
their neighbor. 
Steak! 
Goddamn. 
It would be their first real 
meal since they'd left the Anaheim Flash’s house in California. 
When they had their outfits on, Estelle in her ankle-length 
gingham dress and D.R. in his pioneer outfit of leather pants 
and shirt and coonskin cap with tail, they paused long enough 
to hold each other tightly for 
a moment. 
Then D.R. took the 
last drag on the joint, ate the roach as the first hors d’oeuvre 
of the evening, then set out with his lady to call on the Lone 
Outdoorsman. 
Four Changes 
Whole Systems 
