e book discards Stimulus-Response 
/ (which never helped my head, or probably 
: 
and wades into cybernetics instead, 
The book 
cademicky. From it the notion of being 
: mmed, and self-programming, emerges as a con- 
enc rather than a threat. That Plans (programs) 
ite hierarchically rather than single-file is clearly an 
Ous saving in trouble and trivia. 
The constant checking 
dback loops (called TOTE units) yields a nice 
nectedness to the environment. The consideration of 
—SB 
[Suggested by Preston Cutler] 
ns and the Structure of Behavior 
rge 
A. Miller, Eugene Galanter, Kar! H. Pribram 
~ 
960; 226 pp. 
from: 
‘Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc. 
383 Madison Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
As you brush your teeth you decide that you will answer that pile of 
letters you have been neglecting. That isenough. You do not need 
to list the names of the people or to draft an Outline of the contents 
of the letters. You think simply that today there will be time for it 
after lunch. After lunch, if you remember, you turn to the letters. 
You take one and read it. You plan your answer. 
You may need to 
check on some information, you dictate or type or scribble a reply, 
you address an envelope, seal the folded letter, find a stamp, drop 
it ina mailbox. Each of these subactivities runs off as the situation 
_ arises—you did not need to enumerate them while you were 
ie 
planning the day. All you need is the name of the activity that 
4 
_ 
you plan for that segment of the day, and from that name you 
: 
_ 
then proceed to elaborate the detailed actions involved in carrying 
gut the plan. 
es 
e 
The Act of Creation 
7 
* 
to applications of method (on yourself or whomever). 
Koestler is a scientist of some reputation by now. 
He’s made contri- 
butions beyond the work of others that he’s generalized from. 
This 
is the book that gave him the reputation. 
SB 
out of context). 
The first way of escape is a regression to earlier, more primitive levels of ideation, 
exemplified in the language of the dream; the second an ascent to a new, more 
complex level of mental! evolution. Though seemingly opposed, the two pro- 
= 
cesses will turn out to be intimately related. 
When two independent matrices of perception or reasoning interact with each 
a 
other the result(as | hope to show) is either a collision ending in laughter, or 
their fusion jn a new intellectual synthesis, or their confrontation in an aesthetic 
experience. The bisociative patterns found in any domain of creative activity 
are tri-valent: that is to say, the same pair of matrices can produce comic, tragic, 
or intellectually challenging effects. 
The re-structuring of mental organization effected by the new discovery implies 
that the creative act has a revolutionary or destructive side. The path of history 
is strewn with its victims: the discarded isms of art, the epicycles and phlogistons 
of science. 
Associative skills, on the other hand, even of the sophisticated kind which re- 
quire 4 high degree of concentration, do not display the above features. Their 
2 
biological equivalents are the activities of the organism while in a state of dy- 
namic equilibrium with the environment—as distinct from the more spectac- 
ular manifestations of its regenerative potentials. The skills of reasoning rely 
on habit, governed by well-established rules of the game; the ‘reasonable 
person’—used as a standard norm in English common law—is level-headed in- 
stead of multi-level-headed; adaptive and not destructive; an enlightened conser- 
vative, not a revolutionary; willing to learn under proper guidance, but unable 
to be guided by his dreams. 
The main distinguishing features of associative and bisociative thought may 
now be summed up, somewhat brutally, as follows: 
Habit 
Originality 
Association within the confines 
of a given matrix 
Guidance by pre-conscious or 
extra-conscious processes 
Dynamic equilibrium 
Rigid to flexible variations on 
normally under restraint 
a theme 
sauter) 
; 
Repetitiveness 
Novelty 
: 
Conservative 
Destructive-Constructive 
ht 
) 
Thinking 
; 
Learning 
Koestler takes his notion of bisociation to be the root of humor, 
= 
discovery, and art. | take it to be one of the roots of learning, subject 
There are two ways of escaping our more or less automized routines of thinking 
and behaving. The first, of course, is the plunge into dreaming or dream-like 
states, when the codes of rational thinking are suspended. The other way is 
also an escape—from boredom, stagnation, intellectual predicaments, and emo- 
tional frustration—but an escape in the opposite direction; it is signaled by the 
spontaneous flash of insight which shows a familiar situation or event in a new 
d 
light, and elicits a new response to it. The bisociative act connects previously 
unconnected matrices of experience; it makes us ‘understand what it is to be 
awake, to be living on several planes at once’ (to quote T.S. Eliot, somewhat 
Bisociation of independent matrices 
Guidance by sub-conscious processes 
Activation of regenerative potentials 
Super-flexibility (reculer pour mieux 
f 
ontrol the | 
order in which. a sequence of operations. is to be performed. 
A Plan is, for an organism, essentially the same as a program for 
a computer, especially if the program:has the sort of hierarchical 
character described above... 
. 
Execution. We shail say that a creature is executing a particular 
Plan when in fact that Plan is controlling the sequence of operations 
he is carrying out. Wheran organism executes a Plan he proceeds 
through it step by step, completing one part and then moving to the 
next. The execution of a Plan need not result in overt action— 
especially in man, it seems to be true that there are Plans for 
collecting or transforming information, as well as Plans for guiding 
actions. 
Although it is not actually necessary, we assume on intuitive 
grounds that only one Plan is executed at a time, although relatively 
rapid alternation between Plans may be possible. An organism may— 
probably does—store many Plans Other than the ones it happens to be 
executing at the moment. 
image. The Image is all the accumulated, Organized knowledge that 
the organism has about itself and its world. The Image consists 
of a great deal more than imagery, of course. What we have in mind 
when we use this term is essentially the same kind of Private repre- 
sentation that other cognitive theorists have demanded. 
It includes 
everything the organism has learned—his values as well as his facts— 
organized by whatever concepts, images, or relations he has been 
able to master... 
. 
The central problem of this book is to explore the relation between 
the Image and the Plan. 
~ 
e 
If this description of hammering is correct, we should expect the 
sequence of events to run off in this order: 
Test nail. (Head 
sticks up.) Test hammer. (Hammer is down.) 
Lift hammer. 
Test hammer. (Hammer is up.) Test hammer. (Hammer is up.) 
Strike nail. Test hammer. 
(Hammer is down.) 
Test nail: (Head 
sticks up.) Test hammer. And so on, until the test of the nail 
reveals that its head is flush with the surface of the work, at 
which point control can be transferred elsewhere. Thus the 
compound of TOTE [Test-Operate-Test-Exit] 
units unravels 
itself simply enough into a coordinated sequence of tests and 
actions, although the underlying structure that organizes and 
coordinates the behavior is itself hierarchical, not sequential. 
_ 
the conditions for which we must test are an Image of he desired 
‘those tests, when arranged in eecruence! provide 
a crud - 
strategy 
for a possible Plan. (Perhaps it would be more helpful 0: ie 
Outcome.) 
At 
om 
s 
“ 
We see, therefore, that a person who is caught between confli 
Plans is in a somewhat different situation from the person ci 
between conflicting motives. He is almost necessarily un 
that his Plans conflict, whereas he may be painfully consciou 
his incompatible desires. There is almost certain to be a large 
penumbra of confusion surrounding the incompatible Plans; — 
the person seems to be deliberately frustrating himself, but can 
discover why. He knows something is wrong, but cannot di 
what it is. The two Plans may be isolated from one another in 
such a way that it never occurs to the person to contrast one w 
the other. 
Human institutions exist primarily for the purpose of executing 3 
plans that their members, as individuals, would be unable or 
unwilling to execute. When the plans that form their _raison d’ etre 
are taken away-—finished, frustrated, outlawed, outgrown, 
own, compl 
whatever—the group may disband. Sometimes they may hold | reunio 
to swim in an ocean of emotion, but then they have become social — i 
groups with corresponding changes in the plans they execute. 
But 
many planless groups disappear and are never heard from again. 
In this respect groups are like computers, 90 percent plan and 10 
percent image. 
Individuals, on the other hand are about 75 percent 2 
Image and 25 Percent Plan. 
- 
The means-ends analysis runs something like this: 
First, see if 
you know any way to transform the given into the desired 
: 
solution. 
If no way“is known, then try to reduce the difference 
between them; find some transformation that reduces the 
am 
difference, and then apply it. Then try the first step again— 
see if you know any way to transform the new version of the 
given into the desired solution. 
If not, search again forawayto 
— 5: 
reduce the difference, etc. Each time the difference is reduced, shea 
problem gets a little easier to solve. 
ee 
ee 
A second very general system of heuristic used by Newell, Shaw, 
re. 
and Simon consists in omitting certain details of the problem. 
; 
This usually simplifies the task and the simplified problem may be 
_ 
solved by some familiar plan. The plan used to solve the simple 
problem is then used as the strategy for solving the original, 
complicated problem. 
between the routine skills of thinking on a single ‘plane’, as it were, 
and the creative act, which, as I shall try to shaw, always operates 
on _ 
104 alg a at 
94 IK haa Ss 
THE ACT OF EREAT 
by Arthur Koestler 
4 ye 
eben 
The Act of Creation 
Arthur Koestler 
1964; 750 pp. 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Dell Publishing Company, Inc. 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
more than one plane. The former may be called single-minded, the latter a — 
double-minded, transitory state of unstable equilibrium where ‘the balance. oe 
both emotion and thought is disturbed. 
J 
wats 
In the popular imagination men of science appear as sober ice-cold 
logicians, electronic brains mounted on dry sticks. Butifone were 
shown an anthology of typical extracts from their letters and auto- 
biographies with no names mentioned, and then asked to guess 
_ 
their profession, the likeliest answer would be: a bunch of poets 
or musicians of a rather romantically naive kind. 
e 
eg 
Modern man lives isolated in his artificial environment, not because 
the artificial is evil as such, but because of his lack of comprehension 
FR 
S 
of the forces which make it work—of the principles which relate his 
gadgets to the forces of nature, to the universal order. 
It is not 
=e 
central heating which makes-his existence ‘‘unnatural,’’ but his 
refusal to take an interest in the principles behind it. By being 
entirely dependent on science, yet closing his mind to it, he leads 
the life of an urban barbarian. 
+ 
| must mention one specific factor which is largely responsible for 
turning science into a bore, and providing the humanist with an 
excuse for turning his back on it. 
It is the academic cant, of 
abr 
relatively recent origin, that a self-respecting scientist must be a 
bore, that the more dehydrated the style of his writing, and the 
more technical the jargon he uses, the more respect he will command. 
| repeat, this is a recent fashion, less than a century old, but its 
a. 
® 
effect is devastating. The pre-Socratics frequently wrote their 
treatises in verse; the ancient Peruvian language had a single Worle 
: 
hamavec—for both poet and inventor. Galileo’s Dialogues and — 
polemical writings were literary masterpieces which had a lasting 
influence on the development of Italian didactic prose; Kepler's 
— 
New Astronomy 
is a baroque tale of suspense; Vesalius’ Anatom) 
was illustrated by a pupil of Titian. 
