_tramples on all my fon 
has insufferable hubris 
and he 
dest notions about the independent 
life of the mind. The book is full of harsh physical evidence 
and harsh hypotheses that | have got to either surround or 
accept (or quit). 
—SB 
Physical Control of the Mind 
Jose M. R. Delgado, M. D. 
José M. R. Delgado, M.D. 
1969; 280 pp. 
Physical Control 
$2.25 postpaid 
of the Mind 
from: 
Harper & Row, Publishers 
49 E. 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Pleasure is not in the skin being 
caressed or in a full stomach, but 
(1) Lack of predictability: When-a point of the brain is stimulated 
for the first time, we cannot predict theeffects which may be 
evoked.... 
(2) Lack of purpose: 
In some cases the evoked response is 
directed by the animal.in a purposeful way, but the movements and 
sequential responses 
are usually out of context, and there is no 
reason or purpose for yawning, flexing a hand, or walking 
around, apart from ESB. .. 
. [Electrical Stimulation of the Brain] 
(3) No robot performance: 
Brain stimulation activates cerebral 
mechanisms which are organized for motor performance, but it 
cannot replace them. With the present state of the art, it is very 
unlikely that we could electrically direct an animal to carry out 
predetermined activities such as opening a gate or performing 
an instrumental response. We can induce pleasure or punishment 
and therefore the motivation to press a lever, but we cannot 
control the sequence of movements necessary for this act in 
the absence of-the animal’s own desire to do so- 
e 
The Machinery of.the Brain 
Some is known about the brain, but.not much. Woolridge’s 
book is the.best intro to the subject we've seen. For richer 
detail, get Pribram’s two-volume Brain and Behavior (each 
volume $2.95 from Penguin, 7110 Ambassador Rd., 
Baltimore, Md. 21207). 
—SB 
The Machinery-of the Brain 
TheMaehinery 
Dean E. Wooldridge 
of the Brain 
& 
1963; 252’pp: 
Dean 
E Wooldridge 
$1.95 postpaid» 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, N. J. 08520. 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Mo: 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato; CA 94947 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
A Model of the Brain 
Inside every brain there is a model of the warld. How does 
all the elaborate wiring help us, or any other creature, make 
our model of the world? A noted British anatomist, J. Z. 
(Jay Zed) Young has spent many pleasant summers in Naples 
studying the behavior of octopuses, and has also done a great 
deal of work on the anatomy of their nervous system. The 
result is a fascinating picture of how to teach octopuses to 
do things, and some interesting—though not yet very deep— 
speculation on how cybernetics might help us to relate brain 
structure to external behavior. Especially interesting are the 
many hypotheses about the building of networks which can 
learn. At this early stage all such models are wrong, but we 
learn from our mistakes. One approach ta all this is mental 
introspection. Here, on the other hand, we learn what we 
can learn about learning by literally introspecting: looking 
inside the head of an octopus to see what networks there 
could possibly change as the animal learns. 
[Reviewed by Michael Arbib. 
Suggested by David Evans] 
A Model of the Brain 
from: 
J.Z. Young 
Oxford University Press 
1964; 348 pp. 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, N. J. 07140 
$8.50 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
somewhere inside the cranial vault. 
Watching a rat or monkey stimulate its own brain is a fascinating 
spectacle. Usually each lever pressing triggers a brief 0.5-to 1.0-second 
brain stimulation which can be more rewarding than food. Ina 
choice situation, hungry rats ran faster to reach the self-stimulation 
lever than to obtain pellets, and they persistenly pressed this lever, 
ignoring food within easy reach. Rats have removed obstacles, run 
mazes, and even crossed electrified floors to reach the lever that 
provided cerebral stimulation. 
One of the moving pictures taken in this study was very demonstrative, 
showing a patient with a sad expression and slightly depressed mood 
who smiled when a brief stimulation was applied to the rostral 
part of the brain, returning quickly to his usual depressed state, to 
smile again as soon as stimulation was reapplied. Then a ten-second 
stimulation completely changed his behavior and facial expression into 
a lasting pleasant and happy mood. Some mental patients have 
been provided with portable stimulators which they have used in 
self-treatment of depressive states with apparent clinical success. 
Body-of 
corpus callosum 
Thalamus 
Hypothalamus 
Cerebellum: 
~ Anterior lobe of hypuphysis 
~~ Posteriur lobe of hypophysis 
Spiral eved 
If monotonously repetitive stimuli are provided, such asa regular 
series of clicks or staccato tones, the nonspecific-brain-potential 
measurements will display the property of habituation: 
the pulse 
of brain potential. induced by each audible stimulus:will, with 
continuing repetition, gradually diminish and ultimately disappear. 
If we consider these nonspecific brain potentials.as being somehow 
related to.the degree of attention the subject is paying to the 
stimulus, their gradual decline correlates nicely with: subjective 
experience: 
noises that initially interfere.with concentration or 
keep us awake may ultimately recede into the background of our 
consciousness and lose their effectiveness if they-are monotonous 
and repetitive in character. Such habituation must be regarded-as 
another basic form of learning. 
It is in effect a kind of negative 
learning; perhaps antonymous to the essentially positive learning 
of conditioned responses. Habituation is found throughout the 
animal scale, from protozoa to. man. The indication is that, as in 
the case of learning by conditioning, habituation derives from 
some fundamental property of nerve tissue and does not neces- 
sarily require special complex neuronal circuits. 
Derail filter 
(interacting type) 
ve 
x S34 
x- SF 
vero 
Outputs to 
position 
control 
Ay units 
S 
Maximum. 
P. amplitude 
filter nox! 
0, 
< 
9 
0; 
: “dy 
Outputs to 
a 
Indicators 
= 
} 
— 
Information 
storage 
units 
Maximum 
amplitude 
filter no.2 
Fic. 107. Signal flow diagram of expenmental automatic pattern-recognition 
apparatus. 
The inputs to the nine detail filter terminals are supplied by photoelectric 
multipliers arranged in a 3X3 matrix. Patterns are centred automatically by 
combining outputs of the detail filter to form position controls. The filtered 
inputs are then connected to eight ‘A, units’, one of these will show a maximum 
amplitude for each pattern (Fig. 108) and this is selected by the first maximum 
amplitude filter. The outputs of these supply eight pulse generators and these in 
turn sixteen capacitor storage units. 
During the teaching process the switches S, and S, are closed manually or by 
means of some artificial external classification system. After learning the switches: 
are closed by clectromagnets supplied by the outputs of maximum amplitude 
filter 2. In both cases the closed switch applied the voltage V to one of the output 
terminals O, or O,. The seme voltage 
is 
also connected to an input of the informa- 
tion-storage unit. (After Taylor, 1959.) 
reasingly 
ur 
clir 
imals were incapable 
of 
The fate of these giants may have symbolic value for twentieth = 
century civilization, which is also attempting to direct tremendous — 
potential with disproportionately small brains. While our mental 
faculties are incomparably superior to those of the early land 
animals, we still lack adequate self-knowledge and control, and 
natural history teaches that when underdeveloped brains are in 
charge of great power, the result is extinction. 
In my opinion, without stimuli (or without the brain), the mind 
cannot exist; without behavior, the mind cannot be recognized. 
Because of its essential dependence on sensory inputs, both at 
birth and throughout adult life, the mind may be defined as the 
intracerebral elaboration of extracerebral information. The problem 
is then focused on the origins, reception, dynamics, storage, 
retrieval, and consequences of this information. The basis of the 
mind is cultural, not individual. 
The newborn brain is not capable of speech, symbolic understanding, 
or of directing skillful mobility. It has no ideas, words, or concepts, 
no tools for communication, no significant sensory experience, 
no culture. The newborn baby never smiles. 
He is unable to 
comprehend the loving phrases of his mother or to be aware of 
the environment. We must conclude that there are no detectable 
signs of mental activity at birth and. that human beings are born 
without minds. 
.. 
. the microneurons of the cerebellum, which serve as association 
elements, develop after birth under the influence of the infant's 
behavioral activities. Therefore it can be said that the environment 
is absorbed as a structural part of the neurons in the developing 
brain. 
When the patient was warned of the oncoming stimulation and was 
asked to try to keep his fingers extended, he could not prevent the 
evoked movement and commented, “I guess, Doctor, that your 
electricity is stronger than my will.” 
Experiments have been reported with a six-month-old baby to deter- 
mine:-howmany trials would be necessary to condition it against 
reaching out to touch the flame of.a lighted-candle» 
(The expert 
ment of course was-so arranged as to block the child’s hand each 
time before injury was sustained.) The number of trials required was 
the same as for trainingthe earthworm, approximately 150! 
The optical mapping system of the human brain is of special. interest 
and importance. Through the more than one million fibers of the 
optic nerve of eacheye, the pattern of light and dark formed by the 
lens on the-retina is transmitted to a specific set of neurons in the 
occipital lobes of the cortex. Although the picture that is produced 
by the pattern of voltages reaching these positions at the extreme back 
of the head is a highly distorted one, topological continuity is pre 
served, in the sense that adjacent points in the retina are represented 
by adjacent positions on the cortex. The application of an electric 
stimulus to any of these cortical points causes the subject to see 
flashes of light at the corresponding point of his field of view. 
Simitarly, the illumination of the retina by a single bright spot of 
light results in. the arrival of the usual train-of voltage-pulses at the 
corresponding spot of the’visual cortex: 
\f subsequent work confirms the preliminary indications that pleasure 
and pain centers occur together, it will be interesting to learn what 
kind of pleasure is the negative of what kind of pain, in etectrical 
neuronal terms. 
Emmit walks 
stoop-shouldered, bent and drawn 
e 
Through the curtain Emmit walks; carrying a steaming cup in 
his hand. He stops at the window to look out and to scratch himself 
deep down in his pants somewhere, way down along his thigh needs 
scratching and Emmit gives it a good one before he goes on over to 
sit down on the bed and sip from his hot cup. 
& 
The amazing 
The amazing thing is Emmit’s beard. The whole shaggy mass of 
hair, all over his head. 
It falls across his forehead and down across 
his ears, sticking out in little tufts. His beard starts at his ears and 
covers his entire face except for his eyes and nose and cheekbones, 
a great thick Santa beard that hangs down like a waterfall across his 
mouth. 
Brain 
Communications 
