Women and Their Bodies 
/f anyone has any doubts left that women can really get it 
together, they should have a look at this book. /t’s written 
by and for women and is a masterpiece. The subject is our 
bodies— our relationship to them, to ourselves, to men, to 
each other, and to our society. It makes me feel very special 
but in no way unique— a warm and wonderful feeling. 
It’s a political book in the best sense of bringing it all back 
home and making it clear how we got here and where we 
need to go. It’s full of good solid information which is 
presented ina tone totally different from either the usual 
medical presentations, or the “just relax sweetie, and I/II 
tell you where it’s at’ tone of some women authors. If you 
don’t think you have any questions about your body, you'll 
probably be surprised. And if you’re looking for a stronger, 
clearer sense of yourself as a woman, you'll be satisfied. 
What it reminds me of most is a woman's body— intelligent, 
warm, soft, inviting. 
[Reviewed by Diana Shugart. 
Suggested by Jane Pincus] 
Women and Their Bodies 
Boston Women’s Health Collective 
from: 
1970; 193 pp. 
791 Tremont St. 
$0.90 postpaid 
Boston, Mass. 02118 
Masturbation is not something to do just when you don't have a man. 
It's different from, not inferior to, sex for two. 
It's also the first, 
easiest, and most convenient way to experiment with your body. 
It's a way to find out what feels good, with how much pressure, at 
what tempo, and how often. You also don’t have to worry about 
someone else's needs or opinions of you. The more you know about 
your body, the easier it is to show someone else what gives you 
pleasure. 
To masturbate you have to know something about your body, and 
in particular about your clitoris (klit' — o — ris). This is a small 
round ball of flesh located above the opening of the vagina, and it 
is the center of most sexual stimulation. 
It functions like the penis 
in the man. When it’s rubbed up and down rhythmically, you get 
excited. The clitoris is where all female orgasms happen, whether 
by masturbation, intercourse, or fantasy. 
Some women masturbate by moistening their finger (with either 
saliva or juice from the vagina) and rubbing it around and over the 
clitoris. The amount of pressure and timing seems to vary among 
women. Some women masturbate by crossing their legs and exerting 
steady and rhythmic pressure on the whole genital area. A smaller 
number learn by developing muscular tension through their bodies 
resembling the tensions developed in the motion of intercourse. 
Some ways of doing this is by climbing up a pole or a rope or 
even chinning parallel bars. Other techniques for masturbating 
include using a pillow instead of a hand, a stream of water, and 
electric vibrators. Some women find their breasts erotically sensi- 
tive, and rub them while rubbing the clitoris. 
It’s nice sometimes to 
make up sexual fantasies while masturbating. Some women like to 
insert something in the vagina while masturbating, (like a finger or 
vibrator) but few women get more satisfaction out of vaginal pene- 
tration than they do from clitoral stimulation. 
If you have never masturbated, don’t feel you are confined to these 
techniques. Finding what you 
like to do is what it's all about. 
Boston Women’s Health collective 
her wants and needs. 
Listen to what she says, and if you can, do 
what she asks. In the long run you should try to change your own 
life, and the society, so that you can be pleased with and proud of 
yourself without having to exploit her. For either of the sexes to 
be free, both you and she must be leading worthwhile lives. 
Norinyl, Ortho-Novum: 
These pills are the same, just made by different companies. Norinyl 
contains 2 mg. norethindrone and 0.1 mg. mestranol, as does Ortho- 
Novum (2 mg.). The Ortho-Novum (10 mg.) contains, as the name 
states, 10 mg. norethindrone rather than 2 mg., and also contains 
0.06 mg. mestranol rather than 0.1 mg. The pregnancy rate for both 
types of pills is about 0.5%. They are considered the best pills after 
the minipill for pregnancy prevention. Norinyl is made by Syntex 
Labs, Inc., Palo Alto, California, and Ortho-Novum by Ortho Pharma- 
ceutical Corp., Raritan, New Jersey. 
As these pills are androgenic, they should not be given to women 
with much body hair, unless those women like more hair. They 
produce lighter periods because they favor a thin endometrium, not 
very suitable for an egg to implant upon. Derived from 19-nor 
testosterone. 
° 
To any men who happen to read this: 
this pamphlet was not 
written for you. 
Please do not use it as a marriage manual; please 
do not “try out” the ‘‘techniques” you think have been suggested 
here; please do not suggest to your girl that she read it. If you do 
want to change your behaviour and you are living together, you 
might start doing half the housework. 
If you insist on being pre- 
occupied with her as a sex object and want to know specifically 
what you can do in bed, you might try to become more open to 
At this time our demands should include: 
1) availability of life 
supporting mobile units to all homes; 2) doctors deliver babies at 
home until 3) there are enough trained midwives to take the place 
of doctors. We women want to have our babies in safety andin 
comfort. And we will not be satisfied until this is a right of all 
women. 
A Better Pill 
On the cover of our March 1969 Supplement we printed a 
rumor: 
SYNTEX, DEVELOPERS OF THE PILL, HAVE 
DEVELOPED AN EFFECTIVE APHRODISIAC 
AND DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH IT. 
We also printed our correspondence with Carl Djerassi of 
Syntex. We are even more convinced the rumor is true. 
Dear Dr. Djerassi: 
/f inconvenience is caused by our report, | apologize. However the 
rumor preceded our notice of it, and identifying it as a public rumor 
rather than a public fact may be helpful. Any reply you care to 
make we are glad to publish along with the rumor and this letter. 
Whether the rumor be true or false, it is maintained by desire for its 
truth and will probably continue until it gets what it wants: an 
effective aphrodisiac on the public market. 
The human advantages 
and legal disadvantages of sach a drug are doubtless well-considered 
by you. What! would like to particularly stress, and it is the main 
purpose of this letter, is the public need for a double-function Pill— 
a combination aphrodisiac and birth control pill. 
World famine versus heavy governmental controls over sex behaviour 
is no pleasant choice. 
If technology such as yours can design around 
the problem and encourage personal incentives to population con- 
trol, there might yet be a pleasant choice. 
The public consequences 
of a cheap, legal, effective aphrodisiac would no doubt be wild and 
wooly, putting the psychedelic furor in the shade. But surely a 
revolution of pleasure-fiends is preferable to world conflict between 
starving populations. 
It’s not that simple, | know, but before the 
Combination Pill can be realizable, some laws and attitudes are going 
to have to get out of its way. 
Perhaps the Combination Pill could be called Make Love Not War. 
Stewart Brand 
Dear Mr, Brand: 
I think that you have given our Syntex technology too much credit. 
If we have developed an effective aphrodisiac, our laboratory people 
have selfishly kept the whole business very quiet. 
New drugs are approved for use on the basis of demonstrated 
relative safety and efficacy. The more serious the disease condition, 
the greater degree of risk is acceptable. There is nothing in the 
present regulatory system to accommodate the idea of the validity 
of drug induced pleasure, erotic or otherwise. 
Your proposed oral contraceptive and aphrodisiac combination will 
indeed be a large pill for the FDA and the medical professon to 
swallow even if it has the favorable social effects you attribute to it. 
Yours sincerely, 
Carl Djerassi, President 
Syntex Research 
How to Adopt a Child 
How to Adopt a Child 
Robert A. Farmer 
1967, 1968; 153 pp. 
If infertility or population concerns are frustrating your 
desire for children around the place, adoption can bean 
$4.95 postpaid 
adventurous solution. 
This book details what you can 
expect in adoption procedure, compares the adoption 
Ge 
regulations in the various states, and lists all the U. S. 
Arco Publishing Company 
5 
A 
219 Park Avenue South 
adoption agencies. Roy Rogers and Dale Evans adopted ew York, N. Y. 10003 
a whole rainbow of kids from overseas. 
—SB 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
The proper 
procedure for 
adopting a 
foreign orphan is 
by means of an 
authorised place- 
ment agency. Two 
such agencies have 
handled the major part of 
United States placements 
of foreign children. These 
are the International Social 
Service and the National 
Catholic Welfare Conference. 
These agencies have been able to 
supply foreign children to American 
coupies in most cases for a fee of less 
than three hundred dollars. 
from: 
In recent years, once a home is approved by the agency, placement 
of a child almost always follows. 
Further, the time necessary to 
determine home eligibility has been steadily decreasing. The average 
time necessary for a private agency to approve or disapprove a home 
for adoption has dropped from nine months to six months in the 
period 1958 to 1962. 
In the same period, public agency time 
required dropped from six months to four months. 
Agencies have also grown more flexible about their age requirement 
in recent years. Similarly, the number of years a couple has 
been married is not as important as it used to be. Religion is another 
area where agency policy has become increasingly more flexible. 
Even the fact that applicants jvave natural or other adopted children 
is of declining importance. Agencies are becoming more concerned, 
as well they should be, with finding the proper home, one where 
the child can grow up in a stable and understanding environment. 
Of course, the adoptive parents still have to satisfy certain statutory 
requirements (as well as other requirements that the agency might 
impose), and these requirements are less susceptible to change. 
To sum up, there are an increasing number of children available 
for adoption, and agencies are reacting to this trend by being more 
flexible in many critical areas. 
In recent years, the number of white children adopted has been 
approximately ten times greater than the number of nonwhites 
adopted. However, nonwhite adoptions are increasing at a faster 
rate than white adoptions. 
BIG HILL 
In the section of Kentucky where the bluegrass and the eastern 
mountains meet, near Berea, one of the major landmarks is Big 
Hill. There are several distinctive hills and knobs and rises in the 
vicinity, but Big Hill is the dominant land mass for several miles 
around. 
For travelers on U.S. 421, the bottom of Big Hill represents 
the precise dividing line between the flat lands and the branch of 
the Appalachian Mountains known as the Cumberland Plateau. 
At the bottom, the traveler headed west is entering the Kentacky 
bluegrass country. From the top, he faces a range of hills flowing 
south and east for more than a hundred miles, until they are 
finally broken by the broad agricultural valleys of Southwest 
Virginia and East Tennessee. 
Sex 
(continued) 
Community 
