a full-throated classic. I’ve never flown a 
Subtitle: ‘An Explanatien of the Art of 
Flying.’ This book was written in 1944 and 
is still, 1 understand, the basic flying book. 
Writing, illustration, comprehensivenéss— it’s 
plane, but I’ve flown other stuff, and every 
page glimmers with useful hints for every kind 
of flight. Maybe some Sufi pilot would like 
to do an allegorical review of this profound 
book. 
=SR 
Stick and Rudder 
Wolfgang Langewiesche 
1944; 389 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Co 
East: 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, N.J. 08520 
Mid-continent: 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Mo. 63062 
West: 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, Ca. 94947 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Stick and Throttle. The 
so-called ‘elevator’ is really 
its up-and-down control. 
This is hard to believe but 
is one of the keys to the art 
of piloting. 
On wings it is safe to be high, dangerous to be low; 
safe to go fast, dangerous to go slow. Generally 
speaking, if you want the airplane to go up, you 
point its nose up; but point its nose up a little too 
much, and you go down in a stall or a spin, In 
landing an airplane, to make it sink down on the 
runway and stay down, you move the controls much 
as for an extreme upward zoom. 
In the glide, if 
you want to descend more steeply, you point your 
airplane’s nose down less steeply; if you want to 
descend less steeply, you point the airplane’s nose 
down more steeply! And—most spectacular 
contrariness of all—in emergencies, when the 
airplane is sinking toward the around in a ‘mush’ 
or falling in a stall or a spin, and you are afraid of 
crashing into the ground, the only way to keep it 
from crashing is to point its nose down and dive at 
the ground, as if you wanted to crash! 
correct, 
The 
imagination! 
If one’s images of the airplane are 
naturally and effortlessly also be correct. 
The adverse yaw effect. Ailerons have two effects. White arrows: rolling ettect is what 
pilot wants. Black arrows: yawing effect is an undesired by-product of rolling effect. 
Here, the pilot banks to (his) left, presumably in order to turn to the left, but the 
airplane at the same time yaws to (pilot’s) right. That’s why this yaw effect is called 
“adverse.” Pilot must kill this effect by using rudder. 
Hence the Angle of Attack cannot be seen simply 
by looking out the window; in fact, it cannot be 
seen at all! For remember, Angle of Attack is the 
angle at which the wing meets the air—and we can’t 
see air. That is perhaps largely why flying is so much 
i an art. 
In baseball the batter keeps his eye on 
the ball that he is going to hit. Flying is the art of 
batting the air down with our wings; but in flying, 
our trouble is that we can’t see the air; hence we 
often fail to hit it right, and hence so many of us 
break our necks 
Yake your hands off a good airplane’s stick, and it 
will do a good job of flying all by itself. Take your 
feet off its rudder as well, and many airplanes will 
even then do a fair job. The airplane has a built-in 
will of its own, and generally speaking it wants to do 
whatever is necessary to maintain healthy flight. 
In actual practice most airplanes have a tendency to 
hunt, This means that with the controls released, 
the ship will not fly at constant speed but will 
oscillate up and down, now dropping its nose, 
building up speed, diving for perhaps 10, 20, 30 
seconds. Then, with its essential stability and better 
self asserting itself, it will catch itself, raise its nose, 
try to get rid of its excess speed, and go into a climb. 
In this climb, a bit too much speed is lost, and the 
ship noses down again, to repeat the process. 
eee dees a 
es 
Flying is done largely with one’s 
one’s behavior in the airplane will quite 
Pea ee 
pitfall of glide control: when doing the right thing, you get the wrong result first, 
the right result only later. Nosing the airplane up steepens the descent, but first causes 
a temporary ballooning. Nosing the airplane down shallows the descent, but first 
causes an extra sink. Be patient for a few seconds. 
o- 
Cee fu) / 
wll “My "Wy 
\ 
C((QQs 
x 
ss 
Itty www 
WHAT HE THINKS HE 1S DOING 
——_—_————_——_—_——> 
¥
WHAT HE 1S DOING 
EC 
As you approach the ground you must keep your 
vision relaxed and look all around; you must take in 
|
the whole scenery, the perspective of the hangars on 
|
the side of the field and the other airplanes on the 
field, the parked automobiles, the trees, the tele- 
graph poles all around, the grass, the horizon; for it 
is from the perspective and apparent motion of such 
things that you will get a vivid perception of your 
height; and a staring eye will not see what matters. 
When you get tense, you will almost certainly stare; 
approaching the ground, most students do get tense; 
that is largely why the landing is so difficult for 
most beginners. 
If an untutored’person tries to fly an airplane and 
uses the controls in the manner that seems most 
‘natural’ to him, responding most energetically anc 
most quickly to those disturbances that ‘naturally’ 
impinge most sharply on his consciousness, the 
flight will almost certainly end in a spiral dive and i
crash. 
Weather Flying 
It’s a good title. 
You dont fly in the sky, or in just air, 
you fly in the weather. 
This book takes you through what 
that means, how to recognize and know ahead what you're 
in for, how to handle it, what to avoid, and how to survive 
your mistakes. A good companion book to Langewiesche. 
—SB 
Weather Flying 
Robert N. Buck 
1970; 261 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
MacMillan Company 
866 Third Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The nature of the brain is such that we see what we have seen 
before, and what we have a name for. We are blind to things 
which have not been properly introduced. People had fronts 
Passing over them for thousands of years, but nobody ever saw 
a front as front—i.e., as boundary between contrasting air masses. 
Then, 50 years ago, the Norwegians first recognized the cold 
front, described it, named it. Now everybody can plainly see 
many frontal passages every year. 
In this sense, some descriptive 
meterology helps the pilot fly the weather. 
Lows that slow down are the nasties that really ruin a forecast. 
There isn’t anything more difficult to figure out than a stalled 
front. 
If a cold front was supposed to go right through the East 
Coast but slows down and stops instead in the New York area, 
things go to pieces. Instead of clearing, the skies remain cloudy; 
wind hangs limply around the southerly quadrant, getting over to 
Southeast perhaps; and fog and low ceilings prevail. With sucha 
situation a kink may develop on the stalled front, a wave form, and 
a new low pressure area move up along the coast following the 
stalled front’s line and putting out a lot of weather. 
296 
Flyin 
Nomadics 
We've mentioned that scared or not a weather-flying pilot has to 
control his emotions and keep his imagination subdued or used 
only to advantage. The pilot has to fly carefully and thoughtfully 
even though his knees may tremble. 
The toughest place to keep this fear under control is a thunderstorm. 
It is dark, it is turbulent, rain comes down in a deluge, lightning 
flashes close, and occasionally ozone from a nearby lightning 
passage can be smelled. A lightning discharge may make a brilliant 
flash and loud bang as it goes off the airplane. An irritating hashy 
noise may be tearing at our eardrums from static in the radio. 
It’s 
a hell of a place for a man to be! 
It takes a strong will to say, “I'll 
watch the horizon and keep it level. 
I'll hold that heading and it 
will all turn out okay.’ But that’s it, and the only way to do it. 
If we summed up one weather rule it would always be: Have an out! 
Fly above this kind of cloud. Beneath these cumulus it will be rough 
and uncomfortable; while on top the air will be clear, smooth, and 
cool. 
The Air Almanac 
Here’s a book of pure data. 
If you 
need to know where sun, moon, 
planets, stars are, or where you 
are, this book is prime source. 
/t is published quarterly for 
the forthcoming 3 months. 
THE 
AIR ALMANAC 
1969 
—SB 
The Air Almanac 
570 pp. 
$3.75 
from: 
Superintendent of Documents 
U. S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D. C. 20402 
or 
Her Majesty’s Stationery Office 
49 High Holborn 
London W.C. 1 
Aeronautical Charts 
Mack Taylor is a friend who has a fondness 
for the blank places on other people’s contin- 
ents. He walks into them in his tennis shoes 
and makes friends with the chief and walks 
out and tells stories about how the main 
hazard in the jungle is dead-eye monkeys who 
shit on you from the trees. Mack says that 
often the only maps with information in the 
blanks are the ONCs—Operational Navigation 
Charts, available for 50 cents apiece. The Coast 
and Geodetic Survey Catalog of Aeronautical 
Charts has a map index for ONCs and sundry 
other flight maps and publications. 
—SB 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Distribution Division C-44 
Coast and Geodetic Survey 
Rockville, Md. 20852 
