The Cultivator’s Handbook of Marijuana 
How to grow good pot. The best book on the subject. 
—SB 
The Cultivator’s Handbook of Marijuana 
Bill Drake 
1970; 88 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid 
from: 
New Moon Imports 
818 Willamette 
Eugene, Oregon 97401 
= 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The 
Cultivator's 
Handbook 
of 
Marijuana 
The Maple Sugar Book 
My family had a sugar bush in Michigan, so we always had 
a cellar-room full of gallon cans of pure maple syrup, which 
solved most Christmas-giving problems and saddled me with 
an early addiction. 
This book by the Nearings (of Living the Good Life) con- 
tinues their fine philosophical rap and lays out the definitive 
information on maple-sugaring. 
You don’t have to have 
maple trees to enjoy it, but if you do... 
—SB 
The Maple Sugar Book 
Helen & Scott Nearing 
1950, 1970; 273 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
TOGETHER WITH 
REMARKS 
ON Pioneering As \ WAY OF LIVING 
IN THE TWENTIETH CENTURY 
wy Helen & Scott Nearing 
from: 
Schocken Books, Inc. 
67 Park Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Softwood in the sugar brush cuts off sunlight. Sunlight is vitally 
essential to sap flow, especially in the early days of a sap season. 
First-class sap runs, early in the season, often occur entirely on the 
south side of the trees. 
If syrup is of proper consistency it will keep from one season to 
another without deterioration, except that fresh-made syrup 
possesses a delicate tang and bouquet that old syrup invariably 
lacks. 
Here is a typical case in our neighborhood. The household is made 
up of a man, his wife, and five children, the oldest a boy of fifteen. 
Sugartime comes in late February or early March. The snow is so 
deep in the woods that logging and wood cutting (the usual winter 
occupations) are difficult or impossible. 
In the homestead there is 
little to do beside the regular chores. The family has a sugar bush, 
a sugarhouse, 1,500 buckets, covers, and spouts, an evaporator, a 
gathering tank, a team of horses standing idle in the barn, a supply 
of sugar wood. 
Nota 
single cash outlay is involved in the entire 
sugar operation. School allows the children a three-week “sugaring 
vacation.’” The man and his family tap out. 
All gather. 
He boils 
and she puts up the syrup. 
In the course of five or six weeks, if 
weather is favorable, the household can produce 350 to 400 gallons 
of maple syrup. 
If the syrup is put into steel drums, provided by 
one of the companies that buy syrup, there is not a nickel of 
necessary cash outlay, unless there are replacement parts for worn- 
out equipment. 
Exotic Crops 
Land Use 
Many writers have picked up on a piece of misinformation which 
holds male plants to be useless for drug purposes. 
It is substantially 
true that males have a much lower potency than females, but that 
is not the reason that they are pulled up and destroyed by profes- 
sional growers. They are pulled primarily because if the male is 
‘allowed to go to maturity and pollenate the female, she will lose 
considerable potency because much of her energy will then be 
turned to nourishing the fertilized seed. What might be gained, 
then, in terms of overall bulk at harvest time by keeping the 
male plants will be lost in per-unit potency of female plants. 
So it becomes a trade-off situation where you have the option 
of lots of leaves (both male and female plants harvested) with 
‘lowered potency per unit of yield, or less yield (destroy the 
males and keep only females) with a higher per-unit potency. 
It is up to the individual cultivator to make the decision. 
Another common source of death and 
destruction among indoor Cannabis 
plants is tobacco smoke. 
It is with a 
heavy heart, my fellow Americans, that | 
announce tonight that the smoking lamp 
is not lighted during grass cultivation. 
If ; 
smokers are using the same air supply 
which the plants must breathe, you must 
try to filter the air somehow or take 
great risks with the plants’ survival up 
until the third week, and with their 
health beyond that. 
General Viticulture 
This book includes everything needed to know by anyone 
really interested in grapes. 
It is mainly concerned with 
vineyard production but it contains valuable information 
for small arbors and home gardening as well. Winkler 
deals with soils, propagation, pruning, irrigation, diseases, 
pests, raisins, wine grapes, table grapes and even includes 
a detailed appendix of costs involved. 
This book is the 
only complete work on grape production, it is a U.C. 
text, make your own raisins. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Ron Pietrowski] 
General Viticulture 
A. J. Winkler 
1962; 633 pp. 
11.50 
id 
AICULTURE 
$ 
postpa 
3 
F 
VITICULTURE 
from: 
University of California Press 
2223 Fulton St. 
Berkeley, Calif. 94720 
25 West 45th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
For best development the vinifera grape requires long, warm-to-hot, 
dry summers and cool winters. 
It is not suited to humid summers, 
owing to its susceptibility to certain fungus diseases and insect pests 
that flourish under humid conditions. 
Neither will it withstand 
intense winter cold. A long growing season is required to mature the 
fruit, and, since the green parts of growing vines are likely to be 
frozen at temperatures below 30° F., areas subject to late spring and 
early fall frosts must be avoided. 
Rain is desirable during the winter, 
but deficiencies in rainfall can be made up by irrigation. Rains 
early in the growing season make disease and pest control difficult, 
but are otherwise not detrimental to the growth of the vine. 
Rains 
or cloudy weather during the blooming period may result in a poor 
set of the berries, especially in some varieties, and rains during 
ripening and harvest permit much damage through fruit rot. Where 
raisins are to be produced by sun-drying between the vine-rows, as 
in California, 
a month of clear, warm, rainless weather is essential 
after the grapes are mature. 
Higher humidity can be tolerated in 
cool regions than in warm regions. 
Acapulco Gold, Panama Red and other strains of grass are 
reputed to be particularly potent because of a fortuitous com- 
bination of climate and soils. Actually, soil has nothing to do 
with potency, except that it contributes to the plant’s health, and 
certain mineral deficiencies do cut down on resin potency (see page 
31). Climate has a similar relationship with potency. 
It is the 
genetic properties of grass which determine potency, and these 
genetic properties vary from strain to strain, but can be easily 
manipulated by cultivators. 
Left: Female flowers 
Below: Male flowers 
\f the seedlings are to be transplanted at any point, it will be helpful 
to germinate them in containers making transfer to the planting 
soil easy and non-traumatic. Germinating the seeds in ice-cube trays 
or similar devices allows easy transfer of the seedlings in their 
original soil. The ball of soil can either be popped out at transplant 
time; or each depression in the tray can be lined with foil or 
plastic before the germinating soil is added, making transplantation 
a matter of lifting out the ball of soil intact and placing it in the 
receiving soil equally undisturbed. The foil or plastic film can be 
removed easily prior to placing the seedling in its new home. 
Wild Rice 
Lord god, imagine having enough wild rice. 
| always thought that Indians had some kind of legal 
monopoly on this expensive staple-delicacy. Maybe not. 
Maybe you can grow the expensive staple-delicacy in your 
own fresh-water shallows. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Ron O’dor] 
Wild Rice 
William G. Dore 
1969; 84 pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
from: 
Queen's Printer 
Daly Bldg. 
Mackenzie & Rideau 
Ottawa, Ontario 
Canada 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
All the wild-rice sold today comes from untended stands that grow 
in streams and other waterways. There have been attempts to con- 
trol the supply and level of the water, or to create new impoundments 
in localities where this is possible, but cultivation in a paddy has been 
done only on an experimental scale. Most of the grain is still harves- 
ted by hand from canoes. The operation of harvesting, however, is 
conducted in a much larger scale than formerly, and, in some regions, 
it follows a well-organized plan. 
Wild-rice 
forms 
thick 
productive 
beds 
in 
some 
small 
rivers 
in southern 
Ontario 
if 
these rivers have rushing floodwaters in the 
spring. In midsummer, stands occupy all the 
shallow water, leaving only a narrow mid- 
river channel. A patch of perennial plants, 
including cattails and pickerelweeds, is at the 
right of this picture, taken near Dalrymple, 
Victoria County, Ont. (Photo by W. J. Cody) 
