er. 
CU 
ee! 
IX. Se 
oe 
_ 
—_--"-—- 
e 
Man’s Presumptuous Brain 
The reptilian brain is so organized that it must respond to all 
incoming messages from the senses. On the ground these messages 
lead to purposeful actions, for instance burrowing for food or 
safety; but in the trees many of these actions became pointless. 
A reptile’s behaviour is governed entirely by automatic reflexes. 
Its actions are not subject to reason. 
It does not have to make a 
choice between different ways of reacting. All its actions are due 
to sensory messages putting an ingrained reflex into operation, and 
over this process the reptile has no control. 
Dr. Simeons spent 18 years in India (had brilliant successes 
with malaria there). Is that why he’s written the most 
useful yoga book to originate in the West? It’s not a yoga 
book, of course, it’s an investigation of psychosomatic 
disease (which will probably kill you and is certainly killing 
Us). Simeons’ contention is that our brains, cerebral 
cortex specifically, have evolved clear out of coordination 
with the rest of our nature, body especially. 
It is the 
arrogant cortex that permits us to burn holes in our 
stomachs and in each other. 
A reptile, taking to the trees, carried with it all the ancient reflexes 
which it had acquired in millions of years on the ground. These 
reflexes which the change of habitat rendered useless must have 
been a terrible harassment to an already overworked reptilian 
brain. 
In the slow course of evolution these reflexes would have 
gradually changed into more suitable ones. But so desperate 
was the situation of the tree-living reptile that it would have become 
extinct long before normal evolutionary trends could have brought 
about a better adjustment to the new environment. Some sort of 
SB 
evolutionary shortcut was needed if the species was to survive. 
The book would be worth reading just for its central 
theme, but a whole lot more than just that is going on in 
Simeons and in the book. Unique document. 
The shortcut was biologically evolved out of just the right mutations 
Occurring at this dramatic moment. 
It consisted of a mechanism 
which blocked useless messages from the nose and thus prevented 
them from reaching those centres of the brain which would have 
been obliged to react to them. 
In the olfactory lobes a few cells 
took over the function of a screening device, a sort of censorship or 
filter by which incoming olfactory messages were either suppressed 
or allowed to pass, according to their vital importance. 
This 
sorting or classifying of smells relieved the reptilian brain of the 
exhausting need to react to every message from the nose and thus, 
in the trees, proved to be an efficient labour-saving device. 
e 
The instinct-conflicts which produce an ulcer are usually concerned with 
sex or family relationships. The modern cortex refuses to admit such 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
Man’s Presumptuous Brain 
A. T. W. Simeons, M. D. 
1961; 290 pp. 
conflicts and to expose them to the processes of reasoning. 
Guilt of 
this type, therefore, continues to build up behind the censoring 
$1 95 postpaid 
screen and forces the diencephalon into the drastic action which 
causes the ulcer. 
from: 
This interpretation of the peptic ulcers suggests an obvious psycho- 
therapeutic approach. Censorship at the level of consciousness 
must be so far relaxed that the conflicting instincts, and the 
emotion of guilt which they engender, can be ushered into conscious 
awareness. 
Thereafter the psychological situation becomes identical 
with that of a person who has a guilty conscience on account of 
something he knows he has done, a situation which never produces an 
ulcer. 
If such a psychotherapeutic manoeuvre is successfully accomplished, 
ulcers may heal with surprising rapidity, often in a matter of days, and 
do not recur unless an entirely new guilt-provoking situation arises. 
E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc. 
201 Park Avenue South 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
APeBiuonly written suchetiocaney «treet 
cS reenin 
Come ty ATM, Siemens, 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Psychosomatic ailments account for the bulk of urban man’s ill- 
health and are the most frequent cause of his death. Man shares 
this kind of affliction with no other living creature. 
One of the most remarkable things about the growth of the cortex 
was the incredible acceleration of this process. While the earlier 
phases took tens of millions of years to evolve, the later phases 
were covered in a few hundred thousand years. 
It seems to be a 
general law of evolution that once a trend towards a single 
successful specialization has become firmly established, the speed 
with which this specialization develops gets faster and faster and 
may even develop of its own accord beyond the limits of usefulness. 
Meanwhile, the rest of the body continues to evolve at a slow and 
steady pace, so that after a while a stage is reached in which all 
the other evolutionary trends are left far behind the outstanding 
specialization. 
In modern man this development has already gone so far that there 
are signs of an evolutionary regression in the body in favour of a still 
more freakish growth of the brain. Modern man’s body no longer 
reaches its full evolutionary maturity, as it did in Neanderthal 
Man. Though the modern brain develops further than that of 
Neanderthal Man, modern man’s body remains behind in an earlier 
embryonic stage. He carries certain embryonic features on into 
adult life. An example of this has already been mentioned in 
connection with the distribution of human hair, but there are 
many other instances. One that interests us here is the relationship 
between the brain and the rest of the body. 
In the light-skinned human races the development of the body is 
sharply braked in the last stages of pre-natal life, while the growth 
of the cortex is accelerated. There is some evidence to suggest 
that the negro’s body is better adjusted to his brain. He is 
physically more mature at birth, and under ideal environmental 
conditions he averages a larger body. From an evolutionary point 
of view this makes his brain-body ratio more balanced. 
e 
A tendency to self-destruction seems to be inherent in the over- 
developed human brain. 
It is a situation similar to that in which a 
parasite thrives so exuberantly that it destroys its host, thereby bringin 
about its own undoing. As the host can survive if the parasite’s 
rapacity is kept within tolerable limits, so man will survive longer if 
he can release his body and his diencephalon from the cruel cortical 
grip to which civilization is increasingly subjecting him. 
In psychosomatic disease urban man is already paying a heavy price 
for his civilization, but he now has the means substantially to reduce 
the price if he will but make full use of them and realize to what 
extent his cortical presumption, deluding him that he has full control 
over his animal nature, prevents him from doing so. Western man 
will eventually go about the solution of his most pressing biological 
problems through a better understanding of psychosomatic mechanism 
and will not adopt the only alternative, which is to give the cortex 
full rein; for if he did this, all his behaviour would become governed by 
rigidly conditioned reflexes. 
His mating and breeding, his drinking anc 
feeding and all his many emotions would then have to conform to a 
The Mind of Man 
A good broad intelligent introduction to current work in 
brain science. Well illustrated. 
The Mind of Man 
Nigel Calder 
1970; 288 pp 
$8.95 postpaid 
from: 
Viking Press, Inc. 
625 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10022 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Everyone waited expectantly for the next half-hourly sample and its 
analysis. When it came, it showed an oxygen consumption of 2.2 
litres. Ramanand Yogi had voluntarily knocked his requirement 
down to one quarter of the minimum supposed necessary for the 
maintenance of life. The Bhagavad-Gita, holy book of the yogis, 
remarks aptly: 
Asa 
blazing fire turns fuel to ashes, 
so does the fire of knowledge turn all actions into ashes. 
fixed pattern applying to everybody; this would be entirely contrary 
to the way of life which he has so far followed. 
Changes in the size of the pupils of the eyes are an unconscious 
form of communication: 
large pupils denote interest and therefore 
make a woman seem more attractive. 
(Modified detail from 
Botticelli’s Primavera) 
e 
A housewife in her mid-thirties sits in a laboratory at the California 
Institute of Technology. 
In front of her is a screen and she has been 
asked to gaze at a spot marked in the middle of it. A strange picture 
appears briefly on the screen. 
It is a split face made up of two halves 
joined down the middle. On the right, as seen by the housewife, it 
is a young child; on the left a young woman wearing spectacles. 
Next, the housewife is shown a choice of several faces, and she is 
asked to point with her right hand at the one she saw. She describes 
The Savage Mind 
picture. 
Claude Levi-Strauss is the most famous — | mean, all 
the anthropologists recommend — He’s so — | mean, so 
what if he’s French — The most profound — Sartre 
couldn’t — structural anthropology was what — Primitive 
doesn’t mean — | mean, they knew what they were 
doing — So when — It looks crazy to us of course — They 
were just abstracting in a different — But you can analyze 
it once you — So you see, ritual is the — If you never — 
in which 
normally 
the old man and denies that there was anything odd about the 
Like the face on the screen, the housewife’s brain has been split 
down the middle. She underwent an operation for severe epilepsy 
the surgeon cut the great bundle of nerve fibres which 
connect the two sides of the roof of the brain. The 
Operation was successful and the woman is now able to lead a more 
normal life. To see her doing her housework, swimming, riding a 
bicycle, and so on, you would not for one moment suppose there 
was anything unusual about her. But the tests devised by Roger 
Sperry and his colleagues show that she possesses two independent 
minds under the one skull. 
The Indians always — | mean, what makes you think 
youre so logical? 
The real question is not whether the touch of a woodpecker’s 
beak does in fact cure toothache. 
It is rather whether there is a 
point of view from which a woodpecker’s beak and a man’s tooth 
can be seen as “going together” (the use of this congruity for 
therapeutic purposes being only one of its possible uses), and 
whether some initial order can be introduced into the universe 
by means of these groupings. Classifying, as opposed to not 
classifying, has a value of its own, whatever form the classification 
may take. 
[Suggested by Michael Harner. 
Not reviewed by Lily Tomlin.] 
The Savage Mind 
Claude Lévi-Strauss 
1962, 1966; 290 pp. 
$3.25 postpaid from: 
University of Chicago Press 
5801 Ellis Ave. 
Chicago, Illinois 60637 
° 
A native thinker makes the penetrating comment that *‘All sacred 
things must have their place’’ (Fletcher 2, p. 34). 
It could even be 
said that being in their place is what makes them sacred for if they 
were taken out of their place, even in thought, the entire order of 
the universe would be destroyed. Sacred objects therefore contribute 
to the maintenance of order in the universe by occupying the 
places allocated to them. Examined superficially and from the 
outside, the refinements of ritual can appear pointless. They are 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
explicable by a concern for what one might call ‘‘micro-adjustment”’ 
Mind 
——the concern to assign every single creature, object or feature to 
Learning 
a place within a class. 
Several thousand Coahuila Indians never exhausted the natural 
resources of a desert region in South California, in which today 
only a handful of white families manage to subsist. They lived in 
a land of plenty, for in this apparently completely barren territory, 
they were familiar with no less than sixty kinds of edible plants 
and twenty-eight others of narcotic, stimulant or medicinal prop- 
erties (Barrows). A single Seminol informant could identify two 
hundred and fifty species and varieties of plants (Sturtevant). Three 
hundred and fifty plants known to the Hopi Indians and more than 
five hundred to the Navaho have been recorded. 
e 
We have had to wait until the middle of this century for the 
crossing of long separated paths: 
that which arrives at the physical 
world by the detour of communication, and that which as we have 
recently come to know, arrives at the world of communication by 
the detour of the physical. The entire process of human knowledge 
thus assumes the character of a closed system. And we therefore 
remain faithful to the inspiration of the savage mind when we 
recognize that, by an encounter it alone could have foreseen, the 
scientific spirit in its most modern form will have contributed to 
legitimize the principles of savage thought and to re-establish it in 
its rightful place. 
