_ 
[Suggested by Larry McCombs] 
erstanding Foundations 
Understanding 
J 
ard Taft 
Foundations: 
; 205 pp. 
ely 
J. Richard Taft 
q 
.95 postpaid 
N 
raw-Hill Book Co. 
eton Road 
\tstown, New Jersey 08520 
Manchester Road 
: 
chester, Missouri 63062 
Jovato, Ca. 94947 
‘OUT OF PRINT 
rhaps the greatest, most time-consuming, and least productive 
ivity among fund raisers today is random foundation door- 
knocking. Amateurs, especially, are guilty of this. But professionals, 
who should know better, are offenders too. 
_ Everyone who has ever applied or is about to-apply to a foundation 
‘Or a grant wonders whether there is some magic formula for a 
uccessful application. 
If there is one, it is simplicity. 
The 
desks of foundation officials around the country are piled high 
__ 
with applications characterized by verbosity, pomposity, and 
__ 
vagueness. Make your application short, simple, and clear, and it 
ill stand out. 
ost foundations have no standard form which applicants fill out. 
good approach is a simple letter of one or two pages (even the 
most complex subjects can be boiled down to this length) or a 
short proposal accompanied by a covering letter of introduction. 
= 
sometimes it is worth calling a foundation first to discuss your 
project before going to the trouble of preparing a proposal. 
e 
n’t hem and haw on money. State figures and try to stick with 
them. 
If you need staff, you will need to pay them. How much? 
If you need office space and equipment, check out all costs before 
going to the foundation. 
If materials, transportation, or other items 
are involved, include them. 
If it isa one-time grant, say so. 
If not, 
‘make it a two-year, or three-year, or more, request. Foundation 
officials are money handlers and, as such, are most concerned with 
sound fiscal management. They cite poor financial administration 
asa key factor in grants rejection. 
e 
Every applicant wonders whether or not he should include endorse- 
ments in his proposal. By all means, if there are reputable people 
___ 
in the field who are familiar with your work, the organization, and 
___ 
its programs, endorsements are valuable. Foundations have a high 
regard for expertise. The backing of respected people puts a useful 
stamp of approval on any project. 
e 
After making your proposal or writing your letter, don’t expect 
quick response. Most foundations are extremely busy and take a 
good deal of time before responding to letters or applications. Cer- 
tainly do not expect an early grant. Foundations generally have 
__» board meetings several times a year, at which time those proposals 
which have passed the scrutiny of the executive director, the pro- 
gram administrator, or the person concerned with applications, are 
considered. 
!t is infrequent that an applicant will receive funds in 
less than six months’ time after his application. 
> 
~ On Free Money 
_ 
From my limited experience, the realm of foundations and 
ants is one of the most cynical in the American economy. 
enerally when you approach a foundation they are friendly 
and half- “recepti ve. They consider your project promising if 
little naive, and they’d like to you write up a proposal on 
't. You spend a month learning how to write proposals and 
amonth writing this one. They keep it six months. Your 
_ idea has died of dry rot. Then they request that you re-write 
_ the proposal to accommodate (whatever) and it might go 
through next time the board meets. Do this three times, 
and you have died of dry rot. 
_ Most actual grants | know of were initiated by the donors, 
not the donees. The most effective way to get grant money 
to be Highly Visible. 
don’t know why foundation and government money is so 
ften toxic to projects. Maybe because the process becomes 
$0 easily dishonest. Do me no favors, and I'll tell you no 
_ lies. Or is it the belief that there’s such a thing as a free 
lunch that is the root lie? 
TE ee 
ee 
—SB 
Funds - 
Community 
are listed by state, which is intelligent, since gran ts are 
usually given locally. 
—SB 
The Foundation Directory 
Marianna O. Lewis, Ed. 
1967; 
1198 pp. 
$1 2.00 postpaid 
from: 
Russell Sage Foundation 
230 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
On Getting by Without Money 
Disassociation with the economic bag of any society is 
difficult unless you are very rich or a Trappist monk. This 
article-is for those who have no savings, no inheritance no 
trust funds and no desire to remain in a money-oriented 
rut (there are so many other ruts to explore). 
What | have to offer here is not all-inclusive—just merely 
information that | have acquired firsthand as my family 
(wife and 2 kids) and | have tripped along. 
When we first started on the trip, our first concern was 
food—a needless concern in this country—we went to 
the local grocery store and asked for the vegetable and 
fruit discards. Everyday in this country grocery stores— 
all of them—throw away about 4 garbage cans full of 
edible food. Food that is ‘spotted’, ‘overripe’, ‘bruised’, 
or ugly. The quality and quantity of the throw-away food 
depends very much on the type of ownership of store and 
its clientel. One man operations or family owned stores 
keep everything—chain operated stores throw away good 
food all the time. The easiest way to get vegetables from 
a store is to ask for them. Sometimes you score, 
sometimes not. The store | got vegetables from gave me 
enough to feed 31 people, 10 chickens and start a good 
compost pile—2-3 boxes everyday. Stores catering to 
the elite of this society have the most throwaways—no 
blemishes or bruises allowed.—but they tend to be selfish with 
their garbage. Stores like Safeway, etc. are best bets. 
Another source of food is Government Surplus Food 
obtained from your local welfare office. In Santa Cruz 
County (Calif.), a married man with 1 child earning less 
than $200 a month is ‘entitled’ to 20 Ibs. of flour, 3 Ibs. 
of oatmeal, 5 Ibs. of corn meal, 1 Ib of bulgar, 3 Ibs. of 
rolled wheat, 3 Ibs. of rice, 5 Ibs. of butter, 10 Ibs. of 
powdered milk, 3 Ibs. of lard, 2 Ibs. of dried peas, 1 Ib. 
of peanut butter, 5 Ibs. of cheese, plus canned vegetables, 
dried fruit and fruit juice.—each month. These foods are 
sup 
i 
_ 
fields of special interest they prefer to aid Neeceieh designed to 
push forward the frontiers of knowledge, or pilot demonstrations, 
resulting in improved procedures apt to be widely copied. 
Support for current programs, if it comes at all from foundations, 
must usually be sought from the smaller organizations, and 
especially those located in the area of the agency, well acquainted 
with its personnel and its needs. Most small foundations, and some 
larger ones, restrict their grants to the local community, or state. 
Immense variety exists; the interests and limitations of each foun- 
dation need to be examined before it is approached. 
Where there is evidence that the applicant has not bothered to find 
out the field of interest of the foundation, or has made a general 
mailing, the cost of even a formal declination is scarcely warranted; 
wastebaskets are available in any required size. 
Sample listing: 
San Francisco Foundation, The 
351 California Street 
San Francisco, California 94104 
Community foundation established in 1948 in California by 
resolution and declaration of trust. 
Purpose and Activities: 
Grants principally for welfare and welfare 
planning, hospitals, education, health and mental health, culture 
and the arts, and conservation in the San Francisco area unless 
otherwise specified by donors. 
Report published annually. 
Financial Data (year ended 30 June 1965): Active capital, $6,736,824 
(L); gifts received, $686,287; expenditures, $681,325, including 
$639,793 in grants. 
Officer: John R. May, Executive Director and Secretary. 
Distribution Committee: 
S. Clark Beise, Chairman; Daniel E. 
Koshland, William H. Orrick, Jr., Vice-Chairmen; William R. 
Hewlett, Treasurer; Christian de Guigne, Mrs. Alfred McLaughlin, 
Emmett G. Solomon. 
Trustees: 
Bank of America, The Bank of California, Common- 
wealth National Bank of San Francisco, Crocker-Citizens National 
Bank, First Western Bank and Trust Company, Golden Gate 
National Bank, The Hibernia Bank, Pacific National Bank of San 
Francisco, United California Bank, Wells Fargo Bank. 
good trade items—we traded for eggs and non-food items. 
—examples—made arrangements with a group living on a 
|
farm. They didn’t ‘qualify’ for welfare food but had an 
abundance of barnyard stock. We traded. We had food, 
another made sandals. We traded. We had cornmeal, 
someone raised a lamb—we had meat, they had meal. 
best way to trade is to give it all away—when it’s time, 
it will come back. 
The 
Next to tree food, you need cheap food. Most bakeries 
|
sell day-old bread—we used to get about 13 loaves of 
french bread and 5 dozen rolls for $1.00. (This helped 
|
feed the chickens too.) Egg Ranches sell flats of eggs 
below market value—we got cracked eggs for less than 
1¢ each (cheap enough to feed the dogs, along with the 
canned welfare meat). Also, farmers markets and flea 
markets are good places for cheap good produce. Most 
important of all—bulk purchases of wheat and rice are 
very wise investments. 
Cheap clothes are available at the Goodwill, Army Surplus 
Stores, Rummage sales and Flea markets. Rent is the real 
bummer and we never solved it completely until we moved 
into our camper. However, rent can be lessened on a trade 
for rent basis. | got 3 weeks free rent in agreement to 
clean up the house | was moving into. One friend got a 
big house for 3 months in exchange for repairs. Another 
got a year’s free rent—the first 6 months in exchange for 
repairs and the last 6 months in trade for a sculpture he 
did. With the camper, rent is not the problem it once was. 
| built my camper for about $125.00. | got nearly all of 
the lumber at the city dump and at construction sites 
|
(you could start a lumber company from their scrap pile). 
The stove in the camper came from a trash pile and | 
traded a window for the sink. The icebox was given to 
me. The $13 foam rubber mattress on our bed cost $5 at 
the Flea Market. Four of the five tires on my truck were 
free—I got them from behind the Santa Cruz County 
auto maintenance building. They use tubeless tires and 
they don’t repair them. They throw them away—it’s 
|
covered by taxes. Service stations and department stores 
|
sometimes throw away usable tires. 
|
Transportation is hard—mostly luck. I’ve been given 1 
car, 1 truck and | bought an excellent running car for $20 
trade. 
Medicine. 
In emergency, go to the county hospital, look 
for trade situations. | know of a dentist who did work at 
cost or trade for long-haired people. Another friend worked 
at a Veterinary Hospital to pay for his dog’s operation. 
Look behind the doctor’s office. | found 700 tranquilizers 
at the dump. 
Tools and furniture may be gotten at Goodwill, flea 
markets and rummage sales. 
If you look around, you may be able to find a mechanic 
who will work for exchange of things other than money— 
|
there are lots of things you can do. 
You don’t have to be rich to drop out—but it helps. 
Tom Duckworth 
