Windmills & Watermills 
19-MOoLA Vt Pow Tom: impost TA. 
LEMMON, 
Lots of good ideas if you are building a windmill or water- 
wheel. But no plans and few really useful details. Historical 
<M =, Wi, 
approach, beautifully done, and expensive. Get your library 
Fy en 
4 
k 
|) 74 ~ Say 
to order it. 
al! 
22 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson] 
Windmills & Watermills 
John Reynolds 
1970; 196 pp. 
$13.95 postpaid 
from: 
Praeger Publishers, Inc. 
111 Foutth St. 
New York, N.Y. 10003 
The working surfaces of the stones required careful preparation, and 
skilled stone dressers were craftsmen in their own right. When deal- 
ing with a new stone it was necessary first of all to produce a 
perfectly smooth surface. A laminated wooden straight edge was 
used with ‘raddle’, a composition of red oxide, to detect the high 
spots, and these were rubbed down with a fragment of burr stone. 
An extraordinary degree of accuracy was required, and achieved, 
in this operation. The dresser tested the edge of his wooden staff 
from time to time against a proof staff of cast iron, which was kept 
carefully protected from damage in a wooden case. The final aim 
was to achieve a surface very slightly dished, or hollowed, towards 
the central eye, ready to receive the system of ‘furrows’ which 
performed the actual operation of grinding. These were set out in 
patterns established through years of trial and error to suit the 
particular use to which the stone was to be put. In common 
dressing, the surface was marked out into ten equal ‘harps’ or 
sectors, divided not by true radii, but by lines drawn at a tangent 
to the eye of the stone. This basic method of division, to be seen on 
Roman millstones, was to remain in use until the end of the 
traditional corn mill. Each ‘harp’ was subdivided into alternate 
‘lands’ and ‘furrows’, the latter cut to a depth which varied between 
one half and three quarters of an inch, and finished with a sharp 
arris on one side, an even slope up to the ‘land’ on the other. 
Finally a system of fine parallel grooves, the ‘stitching’ or ‘crack- 
ing’, was added to the surface of each land, a process calling for 
both skill and precision, experienced men being able to cut as many 
as 16 ‘cracks’ to the inch. The dressing was so arranged that when 
the stones were in their working position, face to face, the ‘furrows’ 
crossed at each revolution, cutting the grain with the action of 
scissor blades. As the stones became dulled with wear they ceased 
to grind efficiently, and frequent re-dressing was required. This 
involved the deepening of ‘furrows’ and the renewal of ‘stitching’, 
and with a pair of French burrs, might become necessary every two 
or three weeks. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Wind and Batteries 
Dunlite 
Wind Generators 
| would like to comment on a comment on p 39 January (I think) p 7 
y 
2 
March Re: small power plants for electricity generation. 
Australian wind-driven electric plants, wind chargers. 
Two U.S. sources of wind generating equipment, less 
: 
The plants (wind) ‘ve seen in operation all used banks of storage bat— 
A wide variety of wind generator equipment and 
és 
sophisticated than Quirk’s. 
teries. These batteries of the common lead acid type used in cars will 
appliances. They need detailed information on your wind 
iy 
last several years more than usual if taken care of (feed rain water and 
situation and power needs before they can quote a price 
Bucknell Engineering Co. 
keep charged up). Direct current is of course produced and some sort 
for you. Write to: F. W. Davey & Co. Pty. Ltd. 
10717.E. Rush St. 
of inverter would have to be used to get AC out of the system. | recall 
Box 120 
pore) nose, Cantons 
a rancher saying the company who sold him his system guaranteed the 
Oakleigh, 
Dyna Technology, Inc. 
batteries 10 years; lots of technical data is available on batteries since 
Victoria, 3166 
P.O. Box 3263 
telephone exchanges use them for emergency power. 
Australia 
Sioux City, lowa 
The use of batteries with either water wheel or wind generation systems 
allows large surge power output; with only a few watts charging on the 
average thousands of watts can be drawn intermittently. 
Car alternators can be used for either water wheel or wind installations; 
. 
| recall seeing that VITA was working on such. They also had a design 
for a wind type which had a propeller made by cutting a 55 gallon 
drum along its axis and then offsetting the halves so that it became a 
two cup anemometer like rotor (1 don’t know how successful this was 
but suspect they may have had starting up problems when the wind 
died down all the way). When you use a car alternator you can use 
the regulator to keep the battery charged correctly too. The maximum 
output of a car alternator is in the 300-600 watt range. 
SK 
THE GREEK’S FIRST RAP 
As soon as the bus began to roll the Greek launched into his 
first monologue of the day. It was actually his tenth one, but the 
first that Divine Right had heard, and it blew into the middle of 
his acid high like a rock band showing up at your house for supper. 
Estelle was so sleepy the words merely pricked her awareness, 
like flies flitting about on her skin, but the words were like sudden 
good music to D.R.’s mind. They energized and charged him up at 
the same time they smoothed out his waking, day-long dream. 
D.R. had never heard a voice like the Greek’s before. He'd never 
Axu 
AN 
, 
; 
heard anyone speak that confidently that rapidly. The rap was 
Three-blade, wind-driven power 
two or three minutes old before D.R. even realized that a strange 
plant 
fitted 
with 
Automatic. 
man and woman had taken over the bus and was driving them away. 
Variable-pitch 
Propeller. 
Two 
if it had been a silent fellow mysteriously behind the wheel, 
acid-paranoia would have overwhelmed and terrified D.R. But 
this was a talker, a speaker, and D.R. trusted him implicitly. For 
a long time he lay there next to Estelle, taking in the Greek’s words 
as he would a song. But he felt like moving about, and although 
he was weak and shaky he made his way to the front of the bus 
and situated himself on a box of stuff just behind the front seats. 
models available. 
\ es 
On large wind plants flywheels have been used to store energy between 
gusts; to make the whole thing efficient several transmissions must be 
used and it’s pretty complicated. 
Solar Devices 
“What | envision,” the Greek was saying, “is a world entirely 
| think the aesthetics and ecology make gasoline fired power plants 
free ee eecCmenoe St if pages be overcome 
unattractive. Rural electric lines not only cost every month but often 
How to Make a Solar Still (Plastic Covered), by A. Whillier and 
All 
i Apt chithinthe ahs ee chink aoe Recee 
vlad is a line building charge on the order of a dollar or more per foot. 
G. T. Ward, 9 p., January 1965. $0.75. 
avoidable if 
ie ceca oe ire ts thok seca 
ee 
single auto battery will store enough to run a 40 watt flourescent 
ane 
= 
peor 
nt 
to mucus 
lamp 10 hours; or a small radio transmitter etc. Don’t expect wind 
ioe eee Saree copier ot 7taaW sy: Vb 
et ©) Bu, JONUaTY 
pgrsen Lana aictof 
f 
pie 
tain'tein 
EN 
fired 
plants to run the electric heaters and other 
garbage. Washi 
i 
f 
People 
are on a 
dairy-protein 
trip. 
You 
cet are made with gasoline engines; Sie cen orl retina 
pape et ea Your Swimming Pool Using Solar Energy, by 
hear a lot about yoghurt, cheese, eggs, and brown rice these days. 
_ funon kerosene. Solar electric cells are still to expensive (unless you 
atthe ye wastes yh Oaecackt its 
— sin alergiae Protein is essential. But what's got to happen 
_ 
happen to run into a heap NASA threw out!). We should all learn 
How to Build a Solar Water Heater, by D. A. Sinson and T. 
ss ck Koen saat ma eres me the prioeet ErcrD 
__ 
to live with less power use. Even if it is superficially cheap. 
Hoad, 10 p., February 1965. $0.75. 
habits of the anlar hated? can wah vec. ka ee ae 
By the way on propane engine conversions | found a dandy technical 
an recrrinact a scape eee a 
Pumping Water, 
tein available in non-mucus-making foods. But the thing abet 
book a few months ago; a little dated but lots of good info for the 
3 
Pe 
M 
a1: 
Garay 
People in the west is nobody’s interested in what he eats, now 
initiate: 
How to Make a Solar Cabinet Dryer for Agricultural Produce, 
let alone people in ancient cultures. 
Since the 
ind: 
i ‘i 
i 
Nghe 
by T. A. Lawand, 9 p:, March 1966. $0.75. 
ti 
: 
e Industrial revolu- 
“Butane Propane Power Manual” Principles of LP Gas 
; 
on, people have become mere spectators of their own lives, 
; 
Carburetion, by Carl Abell, William Clark, ed; Chilton 
Heehaeiate for Constructing a Simple 8 Sq. Ft. Solar Still for 
eating what's sold to them, thinking what's told to them, never 
a 
Publishing Co., 401 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 19106 
rotten 
Pacer che beg ahah ERE 
anal La a 
thio gta 
aca alo 
ar arbitrary cutoff point the macus 
; 
1962, $5.00, 300 pp. 
pei 
Sei 
ti 
Propegenc 
established 
as natural. 
s why eighty is 
. 
i 
h 
; 
‘ 
Se 
; 
Plans for a Glass and Concrete Solar Still, by T. A. Lawand and 
considered extremely old in places like the United States. 
It’s 
; 
This book covers planning of engine conversions and specific available 
R. Alward, 9 p., December 1968. $3.00. 
due to nothing other than the American mucus conspiracy 
; equipment in considerable detail for those who dig mechanics. 
ate 
raat men, capitalists, money-mongers of the lowest order: a 
. 
, 
: 
e 
ling 
food 
| 
I'd be happy to try help with small generator problems but | don’t 
Bh cca aMifinieies 
= pontteaegidpitc coeu 
Tat causes mucus thet causes people 
_ 
know anything much about propane donversions! Less power to ya. 
Agricultural Engineeting Bldg. 
seventy-five or eighty. 
Montreal, P.Q. 
John K. Green 
MacDonald College 
Boulder, Colorado 
McGill University 
Wind & Sun coed 
P.S. Windmills still used a lot for water pumping. 
Canada 
Land Use 
