that it has a hole punched all the way through 
hanging over a nail. that is a kind of 
ticality that all american publishers should learn. 
erything you'll need to wire your home yourself. 
~jd 
- 
NEW EDITION 
WL RIN G 
Wiring Simplified 
Simplified 
Honecl xn 
by H.P. Richter 
$1 25 postpaid 
from: 
Park Publishing Company 
Box 8527 
Lake Street Station 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55408 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
! 
F 
E E 
. 
Fig. 4-25. 
on cold wire. Heat the wire until it is hot enough 
to melt solder. 
In soldering, do not drop hot solder 
n 
wires are known as “hot” wires. It is most important ioe you 
remember the following four points: 
1. The grounded neutral wire is always white in color 
2. The grounded neutral wire must run direct to every 115-volt 
or to be operated (never to a device operating only at 230 
volts, 
3. The grounded neutral wire is never fused. 
4. The grounded neutral wire is never switched or interrupted 
in any other way. 
With one exception (which will be discussed later) white wire 
may never be used except as a grounded wire. Other wires are 
usually black but may be some other color, but not white (with the 
one exception just mentioned) or green. 
The white wire must run to every 115-volt device other than a 
switch; the other wire is usually black but may be some other 
color, but not white or green. Examine a socket or similar device 
carefully and you will find that one of its two terminals for wire is 
a natural brass color, the other is a white color, usually nickel-plated 
or tinned. The white wire must always run to the white terminal. \n 
the case of sockets, the white terminal in turn is always connected 
to the screw shell and never to the center contact of the socket. 
Switches for controlling lights, etc., never have white terminals. 
Fig. 8-22. 
How wires are connected 
to the meter Base or socket. 
The 
For 1}° 
ROTATE TO BRING 
bare, 
uninsulaged 
wire 
is alwoys 
INLINE WITHMETER 
connected to the neutral center con- 
METER 
a 
toct of the socket. 
Wood (Coal, Oil) Cook Stoves 
Wholesale 
$ 75.00 
Here’s a company that makes good, big, old-fashioned wood 
Retail 
125.00 
burning kitchen ranges as well as pot-belly coal stoves in 
five sizes, huge wood burning furnaces, Franklin stoves, 
parlor stoves, ship stoves, and more stoves. 
These appear to be really well made expensive major 
appliances. Most are convertible for using wood, coal, oil, 
or gas as fuel. The cook stoves offer water reservoirs or 
coils for heating water, warming ovens, extra large ash pans 
and all sorts of accessories. 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson 
Suggested by Gordon Breckenridge] 
Literature and stoves from: 
Portland Stove Foundry Co. (They may have dealers in your area.) 
Sales Office 
Box 59 
Sterling Junction, Massachusetts 01565 
For Wood ONLY 
Stove 
W/Reservoir 
Wholesale 
$123.00 
$172.20 
Retail 
205.00 
287.00 
F.0.B. Portland, Maine 
BSESSESSSSTSSSSSESE 
ESSERE Sees 
ee 
Wood Cook Stoves 
When I found I could get a used, “pretty good” wood stove for 20 
bucks I gave up the new ones. Maybe that’s what a lot of folks do. 
They’re plentiful and cheap in used condition in northern Michigan. 
Probably all over. Run an ad in a newspaper. 
Peace, 
Gordon Breckenridge 
Alpine, Michigan 
Stoves 
Shelter 
Black 
Wholesale 
$364.80 
Retail 
608.00 
Superior Fireplace 
Seems sensible. Get this metal fireplace, and Jet the fire 
heat air in all directions, get warm air flow going in the room. 
It should be easy to lay masonry up around the metal shell. 
ECONOFORM 
Warm Air Circulating Fireplace Unit 
Information 
from: 
Superior Fireplace Company 
4325 Artesia Avenue 
Fullerton, California 92633 
$84 
For single-opening fireplaces 
+ 
The Code is not law, except as adopted by local ordinances, 
but its requirements should certainly be met as a minimum 
in all wiring. Check with your local building department for 
their code or revisions, and permit information if you want 
your wiring to be legal. Inany case, use the Code as a 
minimum. 
: 
The regulations set up seem to me to be quite reasonable and 
based mostly on safety. It is somewhat hard to use as a 
reference because it has a poorly organized index. The index 
_ is very complete if you can get into its system. 
Following the Code strictly will produce a safe installation. 
Producing one that is convenient, efficient, practical, and 
allows plenty of room for expansion requires planning and 
study of wiring books such as Sears and Wards electric 
wiring books (50¢), or Wiring Simplified. 
The Aude/ Guide to the 1968 National Electrical Code is 
a non-official interpretation and clarification of the NEC. 
/t is not intended to replace the NEC, but in most cases 
it would be usable by itself. ts greatest handicap is that 
it has no index. 
For people working only in residences, the new Electrical 
Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings is much easier 
to use than the NEC, from which it is excerpted. 
Suggested and reviewed by Fred 
National Electrical Code 1968 
1968; 466 pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
Electrical Code for One- and 
Two-Family Dwellings 
1969; 133 pp. 
$1 75 postpaid 
both from: 
National Fire Protection Association 
60 Batterymarch Street 
Boston, Mass. 02110 
CENTER 
OF THROAT 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Guide to the 1968 National 
Electrical Code 
Robert E. Palmquist 
1968; 461 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid (cheaper from 
Silvo or U. S. General) 
PLUMB 
LINE 
from: 
Bobbs-Merrill Company 
4300 West 62nd Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46206 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Forgotten Art of Building a Good Fireplace 
Aboyt a year ago | became interested in the mechanics and skills 
necessary for the construction of super-functional living entities 
and the reconstruction of colonial homes. Recently, during a yisit 
to New England, | took a trip to the Vermont Country Store in 
Weston, Vermont and happened upon a really funky book by the 
store’s owner, Vrest Orton, on the art of building a good fireplace, 
one that throws the heat out and does not smoke. The Forgotten 
Art of Building a Good Fireplace is an earthy ‘treatise on the 
dynamics of fireplace design. 
An inquisitive inventor, Count Rumford of England, formulated 
the basic and seemingly immutable principles of fireplace design 
in 1795. These fundamentals have remained virtually unchanged 
since that time——a span of 176 years. Rumford was a probing 
fellow, having discerned convection currents and having invented 
the photometer and a method of boring cannon. He was the first to 
understand the qualities of radiant heat and used Ben Franklin’s 
observations on fireplaces, especially on the dissipation of smoke. 
This quality paperback joyously and simply tells how to design 
a total, functional fireplace, much unlike today’s squat, low 
abortion, which does not radiate heat properly. Rumford’s 
fireplaces radiate heat warmly into a room’s atmosphere and assure 
that the smoke is drawn upward with ease. Highly recommended 
for anyone interested in fireplaces. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Stephen Lessels] 
The Forgotten Art of Building a Good Fireplace 
Vrest Orton 
1969; 60 pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
from: 
Yankee, Inc. 
Dublin, New Hampshire 03444 
Look at Diagram A. About twelve inches above the lower edge of 
the lintel or arch (at point Y), on the back wall of the chimney or 
throat, there must be constructed a small shelf, called the smoke- 
shelf. ‘This brick shelf, projecting from the slanting back of the 
fireplace wall, out toward the front, is about three to four inches 
wide, toward Point X. 
|t is laid horizontally, of course, completely 
across the entire back wall. This is the air-mixer, the function of 
which can easily be seen by the arrows in Diagram A, showing 
movement of air. 
This is one of the most important features. of Rumford’s principles. 
This three-to four-inch deep opening is standard and must not vary, 
no matter how big the fireplace. 
