28 World Game 
+ 
Whole Systems 
Ecology and ‘Resource Management 
Okay World Gamers. Stop doing public relations and get 
into it: Kenneth Watt has, and it’s technical business. 
Complexity, trade-offs, elaborate models that are still too 
simple, formulas that work once, unavoidable jargon. Did 
you think it was going to be a breeze? 
—SB 
and.Resource Management 
Kenneth E. F. Watt 
1968; 450 pp. 
$14.50 postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Company 
330 West 42nd Street 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Resources and Man 
A fugue of finiteness, this just-published work portrays the 
true size of our North American yard. How much of the 
depletables there is, and how long they will last at present 
or projected rates. Some indications of the levels of 
exploitation where the “‘non-depletables” start to give up 
on regeneration. For what might have been a dry book, 
the writing has considerable hair on. 
SB 
Resources and Man 
Cloud, Bates, Chapman, Hendricks, 
Hubbert, Keyfitz, Lovering, Ricker 
1969; 159 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
W. H. Freeman and Co. 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Man’s Impact on the Global Environment 
Most recent, most methodic study so far of the price we’re 
paying for this spree, and explicit recommendations for 
tapering off. 
—SB 
Man’s Impact on the Global Environment 
Study of Critical Environment Problems 
1970; 319 pp. 
$2.95 postpiad 
from: 
M.1.T. Press 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
50 Ames St., Rm. 741 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
‘Population Control’ through Nuclear Pollution 
Low-dosage radiation effects, the appalling pin in the 
nuclear energy bubble. Two technically savvy critics take 
on the self-promoting AEC. 
—SB 
[suggested by Larry Kimmett] 
‘Population Control’ through Nuclear Pollution 
Arthur R. Tamplin, John W. Gofman 
1970; 242 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
Nelson-Hall Co. 
325 W. Jackson Blvd. 
Chicago, IIlinois 60606 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Oil and World Power 
The brutal heart of the matter, by an Englishman not as 
irrational on the subject as Americans are. 
—SB 
Oil and World Power 
Peter R. Odell 
1970; 188 pp. 
$1 25 postpaid 
from: 
Penguin Books, Inc. 
7110 Ambassador Rd. 
Baltimore, Maryland 21207 
or WHOLE-EARTH CATALOG 
Large-scale biological systems are dynamic phenomena of great 
complexity, embracing lag effects, cumulative effects, thresholds, 
interactions between variables, large number of variables, and 
nonlinear causal relations. Because of this complexity, we must 
concede at the outset that even mathematical models based on 
oversimplified and hence unrealistic assumptions would be 
insoluble using traditional paper-and-pencil methods. Therefore 
the emphasis is shifted from ingenuity of mathematical manipulation 
to realism of description, with computer simulation being sub- 
stituted for paper-and-pencil solution. This does not lead to 
less complication in the mathematics. Rather it leads to complexi- 
ty of a new type. The requirement now is for depth of insight 
into the character of the processes dealt with, in order that com- 
~ 
puter simulation studies can in fact mimic nature. 
60 
] 
| 
| 
}K— 80 PERCENT (64 YEARS) +1 
50 
t 
— 
| 
= 
| 
| 
| 
= 
80 PERCENT (58 YEARS) 
2 
4,1! 
He | 
2 
o 
Ce) 
| 
2 3 
t 
T 
x 
\t 
s 
Os 
oS 
\g, 
5 
1's 
3 
| we 
a 
fal 
Os 
nN 
<4 
<< 
\% 
~ 
Se 
a 
koe! 
° 
aes ees 
1900 
1925 
1950 
1975 
2000 
2025 
2050 
Years 
FIGURE 8.23 
Complete cycles of world crude-oil production for two values of Q:,. 
\n the West, our desire to conquer nature often means simply that 
we diminish the probability of small inconveniences at the cost of 
increasing the probability of very large disasters.’ 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
® 
Economics and the Environment 
A technical book, suggesting that accounting be applied to 
items formerly considered “free”, such as air, water, waste. 
The transition from open to closed economics looks bitter. 
—SB 
Economics and the Environment 
Kneese, Ayres, D’Arge 
1970; 120 pp. 
$2.50 
postpaid 
from: 
Johns Hopkins Press 
Baltimore, Md. 21218 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The hunter is camped on a great plain with a small fire providing 
a flickering light and intermittent warmth. Tiny wisps of smoke 
ascend into a vast, clear night sky. Tomorrow the hunter will move, 
leaving behind ashes, food scraps, and his own excreta. 
After ten 
steps these are lost from sight and smell, probably forever. With 
them he leaves too his brief speculation about sky and earth, 
brought on by the loneliness of night, and he peers toward the 
horizon in search of prey. 
The Administrator of the World Environment Control Authority 
sits at his desk. Along one wall of the huge room are real-time 
displays, processed by computer from satellite data, of developing 
atmospheric and ocean patterns, as well as the flow and quality 
conditions of the world’s great riverssystems. 
In an instant, the 
Administrator can shift from real-time mode to’simulation to 
test thelarger effects of changes in emissions of material residuals 
and heat to water and atmosphere at control points-generally 
corresponding to the locations of the world’s great cities and the 
transport movements among them. Ina few seconds the computer 
displays information in color code for various time periods——hourly, 
daily, or yearly phases at the Administrator’s option. 
It automatic- 
ally does this for current steady state and simulated future 
conditions of emissions, water flow regulation, and atmospheric 
conditions. Observing a dangerous reddish glow in the eastern 
Mediterranean, the Administrator dials sub-control station Athens 
and orders a step-up of removal by the liquid residuals handling 
plants there. Over northern Eurdpe, the brown smudge of a 
projected air quality standards violation appears and sub-control 
point Essen is ordered to take the Ruhr area of sludge incineration 
for 24 hours but is advised that temporary storage followed by 
accelerated incineration——but with muffling——after 24 hours will 
be admissible. The COZ simulator now warns the Administrator 
that another upweller must be brought on line in the Murray Frac- 
ture Zone within two years if the internationally agreed balance of 
COzand oxygen is to be maintained in the atmosphere. 
Considerably more ambitious‘and information-hungry are models 
that attempt to describe 
population processes in some detail, 
while stillassuming a constant extrinsic environment. Such models 
consider not only the numbers of animals present at each age, 
but also their growth rate. The most elaborate, widely applied, 
and discussed model of this type was proposed by Beverton and 
Holt, (1956, 1957) for use in the understanding and management 
of commercially exploited stocks of oceanic fisheries. This model 
was developed as follows. 
Consider the rate of change of biomass yield, Yyw, with respect to 
time t. The average weight of fish of age t is given by wz, and F 
denotes the instantaneous fishing (or harvesting) mortality co- 
efficient, where Nz is the number of t-aged fish still alive in the 
typical year class, then 
aw 
dt 
bad FNrwe 
gives the rate of change of biomass yield for the typical year class 
with respect to its age. The problem is to evaluate Vz and we. 
a, 
That the fossil fuels be conserved 
for uses which cannot be met by 
other sources. The fossil fuels (petroleum, natural gas, coal) are 
needed for petrochemicals, synthetic polymers, and essential 
liquid fuels, for which suitable substitutes are as yet unknown. 
They might also play a part in synthetic or bacterial food production 
(although such a use is also limited). They should not be spent in 
the generation of electricity, for heating, and for industrial purposes 
where substitutes can qualify. The Department of the Interior 
should be authorized and directed to develop and institute a 
practicable and effective hydrocarbon conservation program. 
World Game Note 
There’s something funny going on round here. 
Right in the middle of the March one dollar issue is Gene Youngblood’s 
article on Fuller’s World Game. 
It's exciting, inspiring even. Here are 
all these guys with all the best intentions about to wire up the globe 
so that by the year 2000 (if not sooner) everybody will have enough 
of everything. He really makes you feel like it’s within reach, once we 
get off the merry-go-round of local politics. Though NASA has prom- 
ised $12 million, how much more will Fuller get when the feds discover 
that he really intends to put them out of business? 
Anyway, once the world is all wired up, everybody will live at least as 
well as we do now. All the people, that is. 
Right at the end of Youngblood’s piece you slip into the Ecology sec- 
tion. The first thing to hit my eye was the quote from Lynn White, 
“The victory of Christianity over paganism was the greatest psychic 
revolution in the history of our culture... Christianity .. 
. not only 
established a dualism of man and nature but also insisted that it is 
God's will that man exploit nature for his proper ends. 
. .”” 
But what do you call wiring up the earth? Far out. Maybe Fuller is 
the first of the really big Christians. 
Are we to be total Whole Earth technocrats, insuring only our own 
survival? 
(If you read closely you will note that Youngblood — like 
Fuller — talks about minerals and such, and makes no mention of 
organic things except what people can eat.) 
Or are we to be Ecology Action pagans, trying to scramble back to a 
sense of union with the planet that created us? 
The ecology people say we gotta change our whole culture, or we 
won’t survive. The Fuller people say we've Gnly got to make our 
culture really efficient not only to survive but to get a whole lot 
better. 
You know, the problem goes a lot deeper than just, will we survive, 
and how? No doubt we can with Fuller mold and shape and wire the 
earth toward the compleate human habitation. We will change and 
even destroy a lot of things, but Fuller believes we have the thrust of 
evolution on our side, and that people are really a lot more important 
than the brown pelican (to use an unfair example). 
But it’s not just a matter of ‘Christian American saying can’t. | need 
the money.” Money really isn’t important, especially in America. 
How much did we spend just to have a couple of guys walk on the 
moon, for ‘‘the spirit of exploration”, for ‘national prestige’? How 
much do we pump daily into Vietnam, for “the defense of democracy” 
even as we search for ‘’an honorable peace’? We struggle and fight 
for abstract ideas, andthe money really doesn’t matter. 
‘ 
Now Fuller obviously has the best technique for survival, given the 
human desire to avoid changing basic ideas. 
Fuller isa catalogue of 
1700 years of Christian ideas. Up-against this, the-ecology freaks 
really have no chance, because all they are talking about is survival, 
too. 
But ecology really demands another psychic revolution. 
Like you say, 
a holy war. We need to believe we are one with the wholevearth. And 
not just to survive, but because we really are. And that means, at 
least in the beginning, a new religion, a new faith. 
Only through belief do you really change people’s heads. And right 
now we believe in rationalism, in the technical method, in the validity 
of abstract numbers. Even the piece about the sacred earthworm is 
full of the scientific things earthworms are and do, like 30 tons of 
this, 1800 species of that, 15 years of something else. 
Somewhere | read an old Chinese parable about a farmer who refused 
to take the technologic step of making a waterwheel to water his crops, 
even though he knew how. The rhythms and cycles of his life were the 
important things. He would not, he said, subject his body to a machine 
merely for the gain of efficiency. 
In medieval China this was the high- 
est wisdom. 
‘ 
The distance between that view of life and our own is almost unbridg- 
able, but it is that step ecology asks us to make. Can we make it? In 
thirty years? 
So you have an answer? | don’t. I’mafraid we had better light our 
candles to St. Buckminster. 
Cary James 
Mill Valley, CA 
/ figure our best chance lies in ecological pagans, and the world 
game, and critical letters, and the rest of it. So long as stuff is 
getting tried, and there’s lots of different stuff, and the stuff. knows 
about each other, once it’s in the world, evolution can sort it out. 
—SB 
