cking. 
Joe 
Bac 
ind he canh Ip you. 
i. 
—SB 
HORSES, HITCHES 
~ 
AND ROCKY 
TRAILS 
Horses, Hitches and Rocky Trails 
Joe Back 
: 
959; 117 pp. 
$4.00 postpaid 
from: 
J 
Swallow Press 
139 South Wabash Avenue 
Chicago, IIlinois 60605 
J We 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
LEATHER 
[OAs Boies 2 
The Spanish Mustang Horse 
For anyone who needs a good, tough, dependable, intelligent, 
_ The 
horse of the Spanish conquerors, Indian pony, and ori- 
inal wild horse has suffered as bad a fate as his native 
as 
erican masters. 
Castrated, crossbred and shot for dog 
ood, he is almost extinct. There is now a registry, founded 
Vy Bob and Ferdinand Brislawn, for the preservation of the 
ustang horse. Most of the foundation stock was caught 
ild in remote areas or found on Indian reservations. 
_ They are small horses (12 to 14.2 hands). 
Their speed, 
durance, and ability to withstand hard winters on /ittle 
od is legendary. One Mustang, Yellow Fox, won the 100 
mile Bitterroot, Montana, endurance ride at age eighteen. 
They come in conventional colors— bay, sorrel, black, 
chestnut— and in many others— blue and red roan, medi- 
ine hat, grulla, bluecorn, buckskin, claybank, overo paint, 
‘Steeldust. . . 
egarding horses and ecology. When cars first came in, 
everybody said, “At last our streets will be clean and 
safe.’’ As horse turds dropped off, the English sparrow 
ulation was drastically reduced. 
—SB 
Seaeagea POPU 
CPPCC PPP 
rr 
2 he 
Horse Freaks of the World. . 
. 
As you may well realize, our planet is becoming foul. An 
answer, perhaps? Horses, manure is better than pollution. 
| have noticed that many a freak has realized that the horse 
sometimes proves himself better than the car, and that 
since horses can be kept cheaper than a car, on the whole, 
ey are really more economical. 
As a horsewoman and a freak | am aware that many a freak 
doesn’t have information at hand, and the books dealing 
ith horses don’t really go into the aspects of horses vs. 
the people that really appreciate the horse, more than the 
ed neck thinks he does. Anyway, all the books you can 
find on the subject have a minimum requirement for owning 
horses; at least an annual income of $9000 or more. But 
~ 
this isn’t necessary. There are secrets one cannot find over 
night in owning horses, but, if anyone would like to try 
they are more than welcome to write me, and | am sure, if 
an get it all together, | can help them take care of their 
horses on a minimum of $5 a month, and have them take 
e of them well (a sick horse is no horse at all, remember.). 
fo repeat, if anyone would like some enlightening answers 
to some puzzling questions concerning the freak and the 
horse, living compatably together, do write. 
Love, 
Gail Lusk 
P. O. Box 802 
_Idaho Springs, Colorado 80452 
y 
dou bts about m 
k 
rode 
bar 
y qualifications, 
rel racing rode 
t 
=, 
if 10N it 
you down and 
can pick and choose, but don’t get too choosey or we'll never get 
to camp. 
¥ 
If you don’t balance each load, it’s your hard luck. The handiest and 
cheapest tool you can buy is a fairly accurate spring or other scale 
that will take weights up to 100 or 150 pounds, 
It will last for 
years and you'll always use it. Some people like the style with a 
hook at the bottom and a ring or handle at the top. Seven or 
eight bucks for one will save you and your outfit a million dollars 
worth of grief. 
Balance the two sides of each pack, being sure they weigh the same, 
whether they’re panniers, side packs of any kind, mantied cargo, 
bedrolls, tents, or any daggoned ordinary pack you load. 
Manila is the stuff. Most people, including me, like good manila 
rope for both pack and sling ropes (sling ropes 3/8 inch diameter, 
lash ropes 5/8 or sometimes 3/4 inch diameter: 
a good many times 
you will use a lash rope also for a picket rope, and will want it big 
for safety). Of course, you can use sisal, which is cheaper, and | 
think much weaker and less durable than manila. Cotton is good, 
but boy! when she gets wet and frozen you need a hacksaw blade 
for your knots. Nylon is a billionaire’s dream, and say, Bud, try 
to splice one! 
Besides, you've seen the ads praising the stretch in 
milady’s nylons; it’s so, it never stops, you can’t keep it tight. 
oa 
oe 
ee 
Kamawi, No. 115, black stallion 
“His qualities are complete. Now he looks anxious; now to be 
losing the way; now to be forgetting himself. Such a horse 
prances along, or rushes on, spurning the dust and not know- 
ing where he is.’ 
Chuang-Tzu, Book XXIV, Part III, Section II,l Trans. James Legge 
Sioux Indian Saddle 
| noticed you had a section on Horse books in the Spring 
catalog and thought you might be interested in the saddle 
we make. This type saddle was used by plains Indians 
warriors and is very practical. 
It is much lighter, cheaper, 
and more comfortable than a western saddle which was 
designed for roping cows more than for riding. It is made 
by hand of high quality materials and is very durable. 
Your readers might also be interested in buying a product 
made by members of a rural crafts co-operative rather than 
more exploitative type factories. 
These saddles retail for $40 postpaid or $30 for three or 
more. They are available in rust, dark brown, cedar, or beige 
colors. 
Huw Williams 
Tolstoy Farm Handcrafts 
Davenport, Washington 99122 
Sioux Indian Saddle— Suede cowhide, padded with thick foam- 
rubber. Adjustable cinch and stirrup straps of heavy harness leather 
comes complete with cinch and stirrups. More comfortable for 
horse and rider than any other kind of saddle. 
END RINGS 
fosusT Ss! 
i DIAMONDS 4 
To Tie HTEN. 
/F- NEP 
eine 
py. 
* 
{ 
They make good pack, cart, children, saddle, or even light 
plow horses. Mustangs are priced from cheap ($100 to 
$150 © 
“as 
for a registered colt) to expensive, depending on the breeder. 
Most breeders are old-timers and reasonable. 
We bought 
ep 
A 
three last year in Wyoming and are very well satisfied. 
They 
are remarkably fast learners. 
: 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Paul Bandy/ 
For information and breeders list write: 
Information Headquarters 
Bob Racicot, Exec. Secretary 
Box 26, Thompson Falls 
Montana 59873 
IN THE FLESH 
oe 
But it was not a dream. Those were really beasts outside the 
> 
windows, and that was really David, sleeping there beside him 
ai ef 
on the bed. D.R. felt as if his blood was full of methedrine. 
Fa i 1 
Something racing through his mind increased its speed so much 
or 
it disappeared completely out of sight. The half of D.R. that was 
Ba 
sleeping was a separate, living person! 
It was really David, sound 
“ 
asleep beside him, like a child. Surely it’s a dream, he thought. 
= 
ee 
Surely that’s me sleeping, and all of this I'm seeing is a dream. 
Pi : 
D.R. leaned up on his elbow and looked around. He breathed 
y & 
; if 
deeply, and smelled and listened. 
Urge’s motor whirred beneath 
him, Estelle’s odor rose into his nostrils from the bed. Virgil 
was up front at the steering wheel, guiding Urge around the curves, _ 
shifting gears from time to time, driving slowly. The world inside 
the bus was still in place. And David was a living person in it 
with him, lying there before him in the flesh. 
Is he really in the flesh? D.R. wondered. 
Is that really 
David there beside me, or are we somehow mixed up in each other 
dreams? 
Touch him, D.R. thought. Touch his face and feel if he is 
breathing. 
Don’t touch him! D.R. told himself. 
Let him lie there, don’t! 
With the tips of his fingers D.R. touched David just below 
the lobe of his left ear. David stirred and smiled with pleasure, 
he yawned and stretched and opened wide his eyes. When D.R. 
started whimpering David touched his finger to his lips and 
whispered shhhhhh. He was sitting up? now, looking deeply into 
D.R.’s face. Moving very slowly, David leaned and placed his 
head on D.R.’s shoulder. Don’t be afraid, he whispered. 
| love 
you, and you mustn't be afraid. David kissed him then, he kissed 
him on the neck and lightly on*the corner of his mouth. Then he 
took D.R. by the shoulders and pressing tried to stretch him out 
full length upon the mattress. 
“No.” 
“Shhhhhh,” David whispered. 
“| don’t care. 
| don’t feel like lying down.” 
“What's that you say?” Virgil called out through the car. 
"said | don’t much feel like lying down.” 
“Well,” said Virgil. “It’s just as well. 
I'll be getting out in 
another mile or two.” 
