ar 
| 
~ 
vorse than no treatment 
at all. — 
20 
health manual may be 
ipa 
valu 
recognizing serious diseases.and emergencies, 
rendering first aid, and treating common medical problems 
which do not require a physician’s assistance. Outdoorsmen 
and members of isolated farms and communes, especially, 
should have on hand as much medical information as 
possible. 
rf 
Henderson’s Emergency Medical Guide /s a useful book, 
including illustrated sections on bandaging techniques, 
mouth to mouth resuscitation, injuries to extremities, . 
poisoning, snake bites, emergencies of infancy and childhood, 
and home care of the ill. Emphasis.is placed on the 
prevention of accidents and disease. Some situations are 
covered which are not generally considered emergencies 
(except by the patient) such as painful menstruation. A 
chapter on normal human anatomy 
and physiology is 
included in order to make the rest of the book more 
intelligible to those giving first aid. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Eugene Schoenfeld] 
Fic. 8-9. Procedure for reducing « simple dislocation of a finger, 
applying pull on each side of the affected joint. 
Thumb. Do not attempt to set a dislocation of a thumb. Be- 
cause of its complicated anatomy, reduction may require a minor 
operation. Cover the thumb with a protective compress, support 
the hand in a sling, and seek medical aid. 
Home Medical Handbook. 
Quick and ready for all those down-homé medical problems. 
Pretty good book. 
—SB 
The Home Medical Handbook 
E. Russel Kodet, Bradford Angier 
1970; 224 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid 
2 
from: 
Association Press 
291 Broadway 
New York, N.Y. 10007 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Artificial Respiration 
If the victim is not breathing, act rapidly and decisively! 
1. Have an assistant summon help by calling the fire department 
first, then a doctor. Or ask the fire department to summon a doctor. 
2. Do not waste time with a drowning victim in trying to hold him 
upside down to empty lungs, etc. 
A small child, however, can be 
held by the feet, head down, for four to seven seconds, no more, to 
drain lung secretions. 
3. With an adult, place flat on back, with feet slightly higher than 
head. But do not fuss. 
The positioning should not take longer than 
a few seconds. 
Hold up the chin by supporting it with the hand, 
pinch the nose together, and put your mouth over the victim’s 
mouth and blow. 
Blow hard enough to make the chest rise. 
\f the chest does not rise, 
it means that the chin is not being supported upward enough to 
clear the airway in back of the throat. The blowing should be as 
hard as blowing a whistle, but not so hard as blowing up a balloon. 
Blow twelve to fifteen times per minute. 
4. With a small child, it may be impossible to pinch the nostrils 
together while blowing. With a small child, then, blow over both 
the nose and mouth. 
Blow just hard enough to make the chest 
rise and fall. Blow fifteen times a minute. 
DO NOT GIVE UP! AT TIMES IT MAY BE NECESSARY TO DO 
THIS FOR SEVERAL HOURS PROVIDING THERE IS STILLA 
HEARTBEAT. 
Closed Chest Cardiac Massage 
1. RECOGNITION: 
If there is a cardiac arrest— 
that is, heart stoppage— from 
drowning, a blow on the chest, electrocution, shock, insect bites, 
or other cause, there will be: 
a. No pulse. 
b. Dilated pupils. 
c. Shallow or no respirations, usually the latter. 
2. TREATMENT: 
This requires two people. Place-the victim on his back on something 
firm. Give mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, as already described. 
Someone else should summon the fire department or a resuscitation 
squad if one is available, then a doctor. 
In the meantime, put.the heel of one hand on the lower one-third 
of the sternum (breastbone). 
Place the second hand on the first. 
Depress the chest. The sternum should move about one or one 
and one-quarter inches. 
Exert your body weight straight downward, not toward the upper 
chest or abdomen. Do this forty to sixty times per minute, while 
someone continues to give mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. 
Periodically check the eyes. 
If circulation is adequate, the. pupils 
will start to get smaller. Also check the pulse for a palpable beat, 
and the respirations to see if they have started. 
When the pulse and respirations are working, continue to watch 
_ the 
tient closely for twenty-four hours, at least, or until the 
nt is under a doctor's care. The heart may stop again, where- 
the p 
‘dure 
will have to be repeated as often as necessary. 
ie 
Wher 
= 
Emergency Medical Guide. 
John 
Henderson, M.D. 
1963, 1969; 556pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, New Jersey 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Missouri 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, California 94947 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fic. 4-1. Ejecting a foreign body stuck in child’s windpipe by a 
sharp blow between the shoulder blades. 
Family Guide Emergency Health Care 
This booklet is designed as a reference guide for use with a 
65-hour free course on making like your own doctor (not 
first aid but for real treatment) in times of disaster. The full 
“Medical Self-Help Training Course” 
may be a bit difficult 
for the non straights.to get into, but the Family Guide has 
most of what you need to know (if you supplement it with a 
good technical reference). 
Apparently not available on direct sale from the Government 
Printing Office, but may be readily obtained by writing a 
fairly straight letter to your local State Department of 
Public Health. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by James J. Berryhill] 
FAMILY GUIDE 
EMERGENCY 
HEALTH CARE 
A REFERENCE GUIDE FOR STUDENTS OF 
THE MEDICAL SELF-HELP TRAINING COURSE 
Family Guide Emergency Health Care 
Office of Civil Defense, U.S. Dept of Defense 
1965; 80 pp. 
free 
from: 
your local 
State Department of Public Health 
A first degree burn only reddens the skin and if it does not cover more 
than 25 per cent of the body, usually is not serious. 
In second degree burns blisters develop and there is now the very real 
danger 
of infection. 
Extensive second degree burns will require giving 
additional fluids to the burned person. 
Do not apply grease or salve. 
Cover with sterile or clean dressing. 
Third degree burns even in a relatively small area are serious. 
The injury 
is deep and the underlying tissue has been destroyed. 
Keep this type 
of burn clean to avoid infection. 
mportant to keep the 
victim of 
the 
attac 
oking on vomited matter, but since most 
harmlessly by themselves, regardless of what you do or do not: 
just protect the victim from injury and bide your time. When he 
recovers, do not be unduly sympathetic—you may only embarrass 
him. Give him a drink of water or tea, protect him from curious 
onlookers, and be sure that he is well enough to go on his way or 
that he is taken home. If the condition is more serious, see that he — 
gets to a hospital. 
Fic. 15-1. A cradle to keep. bedclothes off legs and feet, made 
t 
from a cardboard carton. 
? 
Gay 
4 
As this week's story begins, we hear Johnny Hero saying to 
i 
Spider Woman, “Golly, Spider Woman, it sure is dark in here.” 
c| 
“Here,”” says Spider Woman. “Eat this.” And she hands Johnny 
F = 
Hero a magic pearl. Except for the white’s of Johnny’s blinking 
; 
eyes, and a string of magic pearls glowing like coals around Spider 
Woman’s neck, it is pitch dark in the cave. Spider Woman is 
invisible, but her presence is always known by her necklace of 
f 
magic pearls. Moving across the dark now toward Johnny’s 
eyes is a pearl which seemingly has detached itself from the string. 
2 
As Johnny swallows it, a circle of light slowly illumines the Cave 
ott 
of Fear. 
: 
“Wow,” says Johnny. ‘Look at that!” 
AM 
He points to a pool of water bubbling and steaming in a 
shallow depression on the floor of the cave. 
“Look!” Johnny exclaims with mounting excitement. 
"There's another one! And another! 
Look! 
Golly, Spider Woman, 
there’s pools of steaming water everywhere!”’ 
“Careful,” says Spider Woman. ‘Those pools are the foot- 
prints of the Black Dragon. They look shallow, but actually 
they’re a thousand miles deep.” 
“Golly,” says Johnny. “| sure would hate to. 
. 
. fall i 
“You'd never be seen again,” says Spider Woman. 
‘No 
one 
has ever survived a fall into the dragon’s footprint.” 
Suddenly Johnny Hero is seized by an idea. ‘But listen, 
Spider Woman. 
If those are the Black Dragon’s footprints, | 
bet we could follow them right to the dragon’s lair!” 
Spider Woman is slow to reply. When she does, you can tell 
by the heaviness in her voice that she is troubled. 
"That's right, Johnny. But there’s just one thing.” 
“What's that, Spider Woman?” 
"| can go with you no further. 
If you follow the footprints 
to the dragon’s lair, you must go on alone.” 
“Alone!” Johnny exclaims. “But Spider Woman. Why?” 
"| cannot explain now,” says Spider Woman. “Are you willing 
to go on alone?” 
“Golly,” says Johnny. “I’ve got to go on. There’s no one 
to take back the Crystal Crown and lift gloom from the Land 
of Mee but me.” 
a 
"Nery well,” says Spider Woman. “But there are many perils 
along the way. You'll need these pearls.” 
With invisibleshands Spider Woman removes the necklace of 
magic pearls from her neck and hands it to Johnny Hero. Johnny 
looks at them in astonishment. 
“But Spider Woman! 
| shouldn't have these pearls!” 
"Do as I say!” snaps Spider Woman. “There isn’t much time.” 
Reluctantly Johnny accepts the magic pearls. 
"| must go,” says Spider Woman. ‘Good luck, and godspeed.” 
“Thank you, Spider Woman,” says Johnny. “Thanks for 
- 
everything.”” Then, his voice trembling, he-adds, “I'll never forget 
you, Spider Woman.” 
As the wind of Spider Woman's departure ruffles his tousled 
hair, Johnny Hero puts the string of magic pearls around his neck. 
With a scornful glance at the steaming pools of evil, he sets off 
into the cave, making a circle of light wherever he goes in the dark 
and murky cavern. 
“I'M JOHNNY HERO!” 
Herschel leaped to his feet and started running around the 
living room in circles shouting “I’m Johnny Hero! 
I’m Johnny 
Hero!” 
D.R. yawned and stretched out on the couch. 
“Not me, kid,” he said, closing his eyes. “I’m so tired right 
now | don’t even feel like David Ray Davenport.” 
D.R. slept on the couch all day nearly. After supper he went. © 
back to bed again and slept the whole night through. 
Emergency Medicine 
Community 
= 
