Design with Nature 
tan McHarg is a landscape architect, and as a problem solver, he 
has taken on the huge challenge that ecology obviously represents 
to the land planner, making a positive constructive step towards a 
resolution. From his extensive knowledge of both landscape 
architecture and the biological science of ecology he has developed 
@ methodology that no responsible land planner, city planner, or 
large land developer can overlook (nor any 
affected citizen allow 
to be overlooked). 
Through a systematic (and easily reproducible) 
method Mr. McHarg investigates the relevant ecological restraints 
inherent in any large planning area. Physiography, hydrology, 
geology, topology, flora and fauna ecologies, and other natural 
restraints are individually mapped for the area under consideration. 
These restrained portions of the area are mapped in varying trans- 
Parent shades according to the degree of restraint the consideration 
warrants. By overlaying these numerous graded maps, a final map 
is evolved which designates where to not develop, where light 
development is compatible with the land, where specifically 
restrained development is permissible, and where other types of 
development (recreational, medium and high density) would be 
least objectionable. 
Mr. McHarg realizes that the great “scabs” appearing on the face 
of the Earth, and the “‘puss”’ that resides within these sores are a 
tremendous threat to Earth’s existence. 
But, he.also realizes that 
growth is going to take place. 
To meet this growth with only 
Gerisive criticism will do little. Only by developing the attitude 
of “steward” towards Earth and acquiring the tools and knowledge 
that are needed to properly care for her, will we survive. 
Interspersed with chapters demonstrating the power of his method 
fincluding examples of projects his firm has done for clients and 
cities all over the country), the author describes his experiences 
and attitudes in moving chapters that express his love for Earth, 
and the profound reasons behind this love. 
/t is a beautiful book, beautifully written and illustrated, demon- 
Strating that enlightened man can properly care for his life giver, 
Earth. 
[Reviewed by Vic Conforti] 
DESIGN 
with NATURE 
IAN 
L Mc HARG 
Design with Nature 
from: 
lan L. McHarg 
The Natural History Press 
1969; 197 pp. 
501 Franklin Avenue 
Garden City, New York 11530 
$1 9.95 postpaid 
— or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
AQUIFER RECHARGE AREA 
3 
= 
oe 
re 
ee 
mac 
SURFACE ¥ 
TER 
Poe, 
we 
20 YEAR 
FLOOD PLAIN a 
AQUIFER 
am 
] 
r 
hype 
ene 
1 Sypmen 
1 
\ 
ANN 
} 
mt 
Stl 
lly 
wat i, 
| | ’ 
\ 
i 
“mn 
Ml 
| 
(iT 
iy 
HH a | 
wil 
* 
ii ma | 
(hia 
fl hi 
| 
hi tf 
"HM “ll 
tit 
\\ 
\\| 
il! 
| 
Hill 
Tl 
i oe 
RECOMMENDED 
LAND USES 
PHENOMENA 
Surface water and 
; 
3 
Ports, harbors, marinas, water- 
riparian lands 
treatment plants, water-related 
industry, open space for 
institutional and housing use, 
agriculture, forestry and 
recreation. 
Marshes 
Recreation 
50-year floodplains 
Ports, harbors, marinas, water- 
treatment plants, water-related 
industry, agriculture, forestry, 
recreation, institutional open 
space, open space for housing. 
Aquifers 
Agriculture, forestry, recreation, 
industries that do not produce 
toxic or offensive effluents. 
All 
land uses within limits set by 
percolation. 
Aquifer recharge areas 
As aquifers. 
Prime agricultural lands 
Agriculture, forestry, recreation, 
open space, housing at 1 house per 
25 acres. 
Steep lands 
Forestry, recreation, housing at a 
maximum density of 1 house per 3 
acres, where wooded. 
Forests and woodlands 
Forestry, recreation, housing at 
densities not higher than 1 house 
Per acre. 
A 
One cannot predict the fate of such a book as this. But on its intrinsic t
merits | would put it on the same shelf that contains as yet only a 
A 
handful of works in a similar vein, beginning with Hippocra es, and 
including such essential classics as those of Henry Thoreau, George 
Perkins Marsh, Patrick Geddes, Carl Sauer, Benton MacKaye, and 
Rachel Carson. This is not a book to be hastily read and dropped; 
it is rather a book to live with, to absorb slowly, and to return to, as 
one’s own experience and knowledge increases. Though it is a call 
to action, it is not for those who believe in ‘‘crash programs’ or 
instant solutions: 
rather, it lays a fresh course of stones on a ground 
plan already in being. Here are the foundations for a civilization 
that will replace the polluted, bulldozed, machine-dominated, de- 
humanized, explosion-threatened world that is even now disinte- 
grating and disappearing before our eyes. 
In presenting us with a 
vision of organic exuberance and human delight, which ecology 
and ecological design promise to open up for us, McHarg revives 
the hope for a better world. Without the passion and courage and 
confident skill of people like McHarg that hope might fade and 
disappear forever. 
Lewis Mumford 
e 
This book is a personal testament to the power and importance of 
sun, moon, and stars, the changing seasons, seedtime and harvest, 
clouds, rain and rivers, the oceans and the forests, the creatures 
and the herbs. 
SURFACE DRAINAGE 
BEDROCK FOUNDATION 
SOIL FOUNDATION 
Ao 
? 
- lly 
Foe 
These indispensable creatures, performing their vital role in the 
nitrogen cycle, deserve to be household words, man’s great heroes. 
Yet sadly those who named them had no thought of public honor 
and familiarity and called them Azotobacter and Clostridium, 
Rhizobium and Nostoc. 
= 
George Wald once wrote facetiously that ‘it would be a poor thing to 
be an atom in a Universe without physicists. And physicists are made 
of atoms. A physicist is the atom’s way of knowing about atoms.” 
Who knows what atoms yearn to be, but we are their progeny. 
It 
would be just as sad to be an organism in a universe without ecologists, 
who are themselves organisms. 
Landscapes 
Despite its title, thank God this book isn’t another moralistic 
planner talking about landscapes. 
Rather, it is more like a rural historian, who is philosophical, talking 
about suburbs, highways, shopping centers, neon signs, and poverty, 
not as enemies, but for what they are: “They are us.” 
Though it isn’t mentioned until p. 132, the important focus of the 
book (especially for Whole Earth Catalog readers) is the following 
reality: 
At present, fifty-eight percent of our population lives in 
towns of 50,000 or less; more Americans live in towns of 
10,000 or less than live in all of the cities of a million or 
more; and one out of every four Americans lives in a place 
with less than 2,500 inhabitants. Most of us, in brief, 
still live in a small city or in a semi-rural setting, and the 
chances are that even in 1975 the proportion will still be 
sizeable. 
/f | had been the editor of this book, | would have wanted to 
arrange the chapters differently and put some extra passages in 
between Jackson’s essays. For example, in one essay, he makes a 
fascinating distinction between (1) farmers, (2) rural residents, 
(3) wilderness recluses, and (4) city dwellers, using quotes from 
Thoreau and T. Jefferson. And in another essay (which was the 
most absorbing one for me), called “The Westward-moving House”, 
he traces an American family through 300 years of home-building 
history, beginning in the late 1600’s in New England (Nehemiah 
Tinkham, with wife, Submit Tinkham, and six children), through 
Pliny Tinkham of IIlium, Illinois, and concluding in the 1900s 
with Ray Tinkham of Bonniview, Texas. And my impulse would 
be to show how this essay is connected with the other one——also 
how both are related to current migrations and attitudes of many 
“better world” advocates of today. But, on the other hand, 
what the hell could | say to a family living in a remodeled bus, 
or to a non-profit group setting up a business on a 20-acre farm, 
or to any other readers, in fact, about the relevance of “old 
fashioned” caring 
for the land compared with “‘new-fashioned” 
use of the land. Maybe it’s better that readers dig into this book 
by themselves for meanings that the editor left out. 
[Reviewed by Richard Raymond] 
Landscapes 
J.B. Jackson 
Ervin H. Zube, ed. 
1970; 160 pp. 
$6.00 postpaid 
from: 
University of Massachusetts Press 
Munson Hall 
Amherst, Massachusetts 01002 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Somewhere (over western Kansas, perhaps) it begins to grow dark 
and at first all one can see is a dark mottled brown world under an 
immaculate sky of deep blue steel; then one flies over some small 
rectangular pattern of scattered lights——a farm town——and out 
of it, like the tail of a comet, stretches a long sinuous line of 
lights of every color and intensity, a stream of concentrated multi- 
colored brilliance, some of it moving, some of it winking and 
sparkling, and every infinitesimal point of color distinct in the 
clear night air. The stream pours itself into the black farmlands, 
into the prairie, and vanishes. This of course is the roadside 
development seen from an altitude of several thousand feet; the 
most beautiful and in a way the most moving spectacle the western 
flight can offer, because for the first time you see that man’s 
work can be an adornment to the face of the earth. 
Every sizeable community exists partly to satisfy the outsider who 
visits it. Not only that; there always evolves a special part of town 
devoted to this purpose. 
... 
. 
..Some urban geographer will be able to explain why the Stranger's 
Path becomes more respectable the further it gets from its point of 
origin; why the flophouses and brothels and the poorest among the 
second-hand shops (now euphemistically called loan establishments—— 
the three golden balls are a thing of the past), the dirtiest and 
steamiest of Greasy Spoons tend to cluster around those first 
raffish streets near the depot and bus and truck terminals, and why 
the city’s finest hotel, its most luxurious night club, its largest 
restaurant with a French name and illustrated menus are all at the 
other end. But so it is; one terminus of the Path is Skid Row, the 
other is the local Great White Way, and remote though they seem 
from each other they are still organically and geographically 
linked. The moral is clear: 
the Path caters to every pocketbook, 
every taste, and what gives it its unifying quality and sets it off 
from the rest of the city is its eagerness to satisfy the unattached 
man from out of town, here either for a brief bout of pleasure or 
on some business errand. 
Many factors have helped preserve this kind of communal life 
in Santa Fe. The city fathers have had nothing to do with it, 
and there is a large and vociferous element that is ashamed of the 
town’s informality. But it is lucky in possessing a population which 
is gregarious, and at the same time hostile to police regulation, 
and which remains loyal to a long-established tradition of group 
pleasures. Yet something of this color and vitality could be intro- 
duced to many other American cities; it is merely a matter of 
establishing (or re-establishing) the principle that streets are not 
intended sol¢ly for motor traffic but were made for any and every 
kind of outdoor group activity, from children’s games to funeral 
processions and endless loitering in the sun. 
All civic architecture 
is essentially nothing but an appropriate background for this life; 
and city planning is chiefly justified when it helps preserve and 
foster informal communal activities. 
