a 
[Suggested by Trisha Masnink] 
HO) 
TO 
NV 
Wisl 
OPWTNNUDENIA 
How to Live With Schizophrenia 
Abram Hoffer, Humphry Osmond 
1966; 177 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
University Books, Inc. 
1615 Hillside Ave. 
New Hyde Park, N.Y. 11040 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
UUMILUP iti 
by Abram Holler,M.D., Ph.D. 
&Humphry Osmond, 
M.R.C.8.,D. P.M. 
This book is addressed to the broad public to report an important 
breakthrough in medicine. Treatment of several hundred schizophrenic 
patients, during twelve years, proves beyond a shadow of a doubt 
that niacin or nicotinic acid speeds improvement and recovery of 
schizophrenics and keeps them out of hospitals. Among acute cases 
diagnosed in early stages the effect of niacin is usually dramatic and 
profound. Full recoveries are often made in a few months, hospital- 
ized cases become well enough for out-patient care, chronic mental 
patients of years standing can sometimes fully recover, and extremely 
Serious cases are improved. 
Working with other scientists, the authors have established that 
schizophrenia is basically‘a physical illness caused primarily by 
disturbances in the biochemical balance of the body and that this is 
determined by genetic disposition. 
Evidence has accumulated that schizophrenia may be due toa 
defective adrenal metabolism which results in production of a subtle 
poison in the blood of its victims. 
In varying degrees, from mild to shattering, this schizophrenic toxin 
interferes with normal brain function and creates bizarre disturbances 
and changes in perception, mood, thought, personality so common in 
schizophrenia. 
These two scientists also discovered a new therapy for schizophrenia 
which relies on a simple, harmless, cheap, and highly effective 
vitamin— vitamin B-3, also known as niacin, nicotinic acid or 
nicotinamide. Massive doses— 3,000 milligrams per day, or several 
hundred times the normal dietary requirement— successfully 
counteract the schizophrenic toxin. 
Schizophrenics Anonymous, the newest idea in treatment of the 
mentally ill, with chapters in Canada and the United States launched 
at the suggestion of Drs. Hoffer and Osmond, has proven that “‘schizo- 
phrenics can work together toward solution of their difficulties.” 
1Z 
public. 
In clear simple language, the noted doctors cut through the con- 
fusion, misconception and myths that have surrounded this disease, 
obscuring its reality and compounding its tragedies. 
This book will be a godsend to many victims of this dread disease, 
and their families. It is bound to create a groundswell reaction 
which can give schizophrenics the right to be considered physically 
ill. Then they can benefit from a society informed and mobilized 
properly to treat them for their illness. 
Treatment of Schizophrenia 
Perhaps you have been depressed for the past few months. 
For no 
good reason that you can think of you suddenly burst into tears, or 
you have moments of panic you can’t explain. Your work no longer 
interests you. You are fatigued and miserable. 
At the same time you may be having frightening experiences such as 
seeing flashing lights, noticing changes in people's faces, or feeling 
peculiar changes in your body. Something is happening to you and 
no one has been able or willing to tell you what it is. 
Perhaps you are now taking tranquilizers and occupational therapy 
ataclinic? You are possibly making regular visits to your psychiatrist 
for deep therapy to ‘‘root out the souce of your troubles buried 
in your psyche” 
Although you are willing to cooperate with your 
doctor to the best of your ability, you are frightened because you 
are not feeling any better, and you are convinced that you never will. 
Or perhaps you have a close relative— 
a parent, or a child, or a 
sister or brother— who has, unaccountably, become very difficult 
to live with? Perhaps he has frequent outbursts of temper and 
moments of unreasonable suspiciousness? He sometimes says 
things which frighten you and does peculiar things which seem quite 
irrational to you. He may be receiving treatment for some vague 
“nervous” or “emotional disorder’, but you have noticed little— 
if any— improvement. 
What can you do now? Where can you go for help? 
Millions of people all over the world are faced with the same dilemma 
you face today. There is nowhere they can go for information, and 
no one who can tell them why they feel the way they do, or what 
they can do about it. Mental health associations in England, Canada 
and the United States do not have any literature to which people 
like yourself can refer. 
But for you, for your relative and those with similar problems, help 
is available. 
It is up to you to see that you get that help. We will 
describe here a treatment program for schizophrenia which we have 
developed and found effective in our own work, and which we think 
is the best available. We will furthermore examine what part other 
members of the treatment team— 
hospitals, nurses, family, 
community, and yourself— must play in this effort. 
For effective 
treatment of schizophrenia requiresall the resources that can be 
made available to you... 
4 
O 
you are 
st 
atment 
in 
your 
c 
home. It may be that you are not sure you are ill or that you a 
unable to take your medicine regularly because you are forgetfu 
You can still be given phase one treatment if you have someone 
your family, or a friend who will remind you when you should 
© 
take your medicine. 
5 
We suggest you take either nicotinic acid or nicotinamide as your 
__ 
basic medicine, as both vitamins have the same effect on you. Bot a 
substances are B vitamins; nicotinamide was once called vitamine 
© < 
; 
| 
B-3. Nicotinic acid (this is also called niacin) has an advantage whic 
| 
nicotinamide (also called niacinamide) does not have. 
It lowers the 
| 
fatty substances, cholesterol and fatty acids in the blood. These ss 
| 
substances play a role in hardening of the arteries, Since hardening 
t 
of the arteries (arteriosclerosis) can lead to high blood pressure and 
senile changes in the brain, it may be desirable to use nicotinic acid 
in cases where these additional changes are present. 
We have to start with one. 
If we start with nicotinic acid you will 
be given a prescription for one month’s supply at a dose level of 
2 
three grams per day. They are available in one-half gram tablets. 
By 
You will take two half-gram tablets after each meal. The first time 
Dani 
you take them you will probably have a marked flush. About one- 
“Sher 
| 
half to one hour after you take the tablets you will become aware of 
a tingling sensation in your forehead. Then your face will turn red 
and you will feel hot and flushed. The flush will spread down your 
_ 
body. Usually it will include your arms and chest, but very rarely 
ios 
will your whole body flush. There is no need to be alarmed. This 
is a normal reaction to this vitamin. There is no change in your 
blood pressure and you will not faint. 
You will be uncomfortable the first time and you might be wise 
"Yegeny 
to take the first tablets in the evening while lying down in bed. 
i 
Each time you take the pills the reaction becomes less strong and, 
| 
within a few days to a few weeks, you will have become accustomed 
’ 
‘ 
to them. Eventually as long as you take the medicine regularly, you 
Me 
will stop flushing altogether, or it will be so mild it will not trouble 
‘ 
you. Some patients like to take the nicotinic acid right after meals. 
Sometimes patients are bothered by the acidity of nicotinic acid. 
If this happens to you, you can take one-half a teaspoon of bicar- 
bonate of soda with the tablets. 
If, however, after you have taken 
nicotinic acid regularly as prescribed, and you are troubled by it, 
you may be advised to stop it and to take nicotinamide instead. 
Nicotinamide produces no flush at all, and for this reason it may be 
preferable for some patients. 
It does not lower cholesterol, but 
can cause some nausea. 
The treatment you would be on would, in addition, depend on how 
; 
old you are and what other physical complaints you may have. 
> 
Note. 
The use of niacin is to restore a chemical imbalance. 
It may 
take weeks or months to take effect. 
If it does the trick for you, 
you will probably need to take it for the rest of your life, like 
insulin for a diabetic. No drug company 
is getting rich off niacin 
(one reason for slow promotion of the treatment in the medical 
field); it’s cheap. 
Jim Fadiman told us that a good outfit to get in touch with is the 
American Schizophrenic Association, 56 W. 45th St., New York, 
N.Y. 10036. An effective service organization similar to Alcoholics 
- 
Anonymous. 
—SB 
Megavitamin Therapy 
Word has been drifting around for some while now about the 
use of massive doses (like 3 grams) of niacin (vitamin B-3) 
as a sanity drug. For example, to help terminate or lighten 
abum LSD session. 
To alleviate anxiety states. 
To accom- 
plish, with time, possible cure of schizophrenia. 
This pam- 
phlet has all the basic information you need, including 
suppliers of niacin. 
_sB 
Megavitamin Therapy 
20 pp. 
$0.25 postpaid 
from: 
Aurora Book Companions 
Terminal Box 5852 
Denver, Colorado 80217 
The megavitamin therapy is not intended to cure vitamin deficiencies. 
For that, generally, much lower dosages are needed, and natural 
vitamin preparations are recommended. Physicians using the 
megavitamin therapy know that the illnesses treated by it are not 
vitamin deficiencies. 
The megavitamin therapy isused for schizophrenia, neurosis, hypo- 
glycemia, alcoholism, anxiety states, malvaria, arthritis, senility, 
hyperlipemia, hypercholesterolemia, coronarics and LSD poisoning. 
In the megavitamin therapy the vitamins are used to balance the 
faulty body chemistry. They were selected because they are inex- 
pensive, can be taken orally, and have no dangerous side effects, 
even if taken in large dosages for a short period, or continuously 
in the maintenance dosages. 
Alcoholics Anonymous 
They’re good. Check your local phone directory. 
—SB 
Person to Person 
Barry Stevens is a lady with one of the best popularization 
formats going. She’s taken significant papers of current 
action in humanistic psychology, and embedded them in a 
rich collection of her own non-professional living and apply- 
ing. The papers are by Carl Rogers, Eugene Gendlin, John 
Shlien, and Wilson Van Dusen. Most of the exerpts below 
are from Barry Stevens. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Barry Stevens] 
AB 
isi 
Person to Person 
Carl Rogers & Barry Stevens 
1967; 276 pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Pocket Books 
One W. 39th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10018 
Attn: Order Dept. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
|| 
| saw the Hopi look at Cab so equally that he drew Cab downtohis”= 
|
own level—precisely, and not one bit lower—so that they seemed to 
vin 
be two people eye-to-eye. | was so impressed by this that! lookedup 
to the Hopi as though he were some sort of god. The Hopi turned to 
f 
me with that same strong equalness in his gaze, and | felt myself being 
drawn up until we were on the same plane. 
You must have a career,’ they said. 
| don’t want a career,’ | said. 
‘| want a careen,’.... 
At 
he made the poets whom | knew seem suddenly like phoney copies 
{ 
of themselves, as far from real as the man who saw ina Rorschach blot 
|
where most people see two men, ‘The shadows of the silouettesof the 
 __ 
ghosts of two puppets.’ 
| 
Abstract talk seems to me not only ‘in front of the face’ but not even 
in this room or this world. 
It is like rumors about something real. 
Sidney Cohen says ‘Our visual mechanism must have evolved with they 
goal of keeping the organism viable rather than with the aim of seeing 
things as they are.’ Do | sometimes see things more nearly as they are? 
— 
If | do, is this ‘hallucination’? 
rou (
4 
JOHNNY HERO 
Last week’s episode: Thanks to a timely warning by his‘ever- 
} 
watchful guardian, Spider Woman, Johnny Hero narrowly escaped 
b
being buried alive in an avalanche caused by Trickster, the notorious 
n 
henchman of the Black Dragon. 
In a duel fought at the very 
ele 
entrance to the forbidding Cave of Fear, Johnny subdued Trickster 
and bound him tightly with silver web provided by the ever- 
af} 
faithful Spider Woman. Thus did Johnny Hero overcome another 
— 
dangerous obstacle in his struggle to liberate the Crystal Crown 
from the clutches of the Black Dragon; and lift gloom from the 
® 
Land of Mee. 
$ 
(continued) 
Mental Health 
Community O71 
