0 
hno logical and long-haired 
worlds — 
jled after ALLOY, the event organized 
er 
in New Mexico at the Spring Equinox, and 
same people attended. (ALLOY 
ison p. 171.) 
assembled by Dave Evans of the Augmented 
/lect group in Menlo Park. The gathering took 
woo led canyon near Santa Barbara. 
The 3-day 
‘not have a particular program, and suffered 
j 
ack. Also Alloy was a tough act to follow. 
artici| Te from SRI, Zomeworks, Portola Institute, 
igh School, Parnassus Institute, Hog Farm, Ecology 
Southcoast, Beckwith & Langsner, Office Design, 
some of what was said. The strongest stuff came 
tudents and teachers from Pacific High School. 
a 
> 
How do you continue to live a life of learning 
a 
Sas 
erilla theater is usually about something that’s 
eady up that isn’t satisfactory. 
ou 
4 
. 
\t’s not enough to protest. We're trying exemplary 
Monks from the Zen Mountain Center, 
In public high school | could sort of dig the idea 
of being aclassroom Commando. 
But at Pacific 
it’s obvious you’re just fucking yourself. 
" Computers are beginning to give the mechanistic 
All | know is, when you fuck a robot, you gotta get 
a shot for lockjaw. 
We're gonna choke on our own self-satisfaction . 
. 
. 
Any of the things we do have an active life of 
about a year. 
It may be on the order of a natural 
law. Maybe people shouldn't have a sense of 
failure... 
. The things that sustain us are the trickle 
of information, but what pushes us On are the new 
surges. Get what you can out of it & move on. 
ee 
once you escape the institutions set up for learning? 
It takes 500 people to incorporate into a community. 
The guys | went to high schoo! with are just about 
running the country now. 
| didn’t get along with 
them. Nobody here did. 
The changes that can come down in like 10 days 
are just real. There may have been a revolution 
while we're away. 
old reli 
world a brain. And it’s our job to give it a soul. 
The machine doesn’t solve all our problems, 
it gives us more problems than we'd have 
without it. Like the first airplanes. It'd be 
easier to ride a horse. 
They zoned Soleri’s place as habitable sculpture. (pias P 
couldn’‘t feed yourself. 
At various times the situation has become very 
entropic. We seem to be taking the attitude this 
year that there are certain kinds of urgent things 
that need doing. 
. 
. 
. We have some 20 boarding 
students. All the staff are living at the place. 
If 
you want a place to live you better build it, and you 
better find out what the design considerations are. 
here. 
It isn’t enough to say | am a music teacher and my 
door is always open. We are going to do music at 
a certain hour on a certain day. 
Yoga. Sociology. Math. Music French. 
Biology. 
Literature—those happen to be the fields of compe- 
tence of the staff who are there. 
The least active students right now are the new 
students. 
| guess it’s right. They’re going through 
shock. 
all year. 
What's our policy on drugs? ‘’You’re not free to 
get the school busted.”’ 
It’s the same with sex. 
30 is about the carrying capacity of most communes. 
We gave everybody a spoon and the rule was you 
At first there must be a dream. Then 
economy or technology or whatever. 
On Friday we take off to places that we think 
might have educational value like the beach, or 
The director was brought up in a Catholic 
orphanage, where his tongue developed a 
fine cutting edge. 
| went back to my old high school, and the kids 
were just going saying fuck fuck and getting loaded. 
And | had changed more in a week than they had 
We don’t know whether we're ona 
5 year thing or a 500 year thing. 
Something deeply in the heart of language 
is 
@ what's fucking us up. 
y 
Jail is the national monastic cone 
You learn something different when you do 
yourself, 
They all crap in the same sewers. That 
ought to bring them together. 
q 
All that amateur radio operators do is talk 
about the weather and describe their 
equipment, Those media are really ripe 
« for infiltration. 
x 
a 
We're starting with an incredibly powerful 
, 
technology, and what we've got so farisan 
incredibly primitive technique. 
<4 
There’s a whole mass of information stirred in the 
computer. 
It’s a filing cabinet that’s so fast and so 
together that it makes a whole different kind of 
difference. 
We called our group at first Bum Academy. 
Entrance requirements: You must walk from 
Tokyo to north of Japan to south of Japan, 
with no money. 
Preparing the student for ‘‘the Future”. 
High school will prepare you for college. 
And college will prepare you for a job. 
And a job will prepare you for retire- 
ment. And retirement will prepare you 
for death. We call that ‘The Sorrowful 
Round.” It’s based on the present, not 
the future. 
We have a student who wanted to build a submarine. 
We have a nice lake. He took over the shop and 
started putting together this thing. We can’t get 
this kid to do anything else. The fallout from the 
submarine completely covers the shop and the 
adjoining art room. 
He keeps assuring us that 
it’s nearing completion. 
It’s really far-out to look at a teacher 
as an Overgrown student, and a friend. 
The students ask to graduate. It’s a 
privilege of the staff to decide. We 
huddle in a smoke filled room. We 
get the student in there. We have 
certain criteria which we hold up 
against the student: 
3 quarters of presence (we've 
graduated some at less) 
is 18 years of age 
clear idea of what he wants to do 
It’s all show. 
It’s the life show and the show show 
. 
and we’re trying to get them till they're all one. 
The Playboy guys came by and said they wanted 
to take pictures, and we said we wanted a well, and 
they said you got a well. 
The hospital is right next to the stage and the kitchen 
is next to that. And we put the light show on the girls 
washing dishes and with all that energy the dishes just 
wash themselves. 
Open Classroom 
Bet 
The Open Classroom is written for anyone with the courage (or 
foolishness) to want to be a decent teacher within the public school 
system. It’s a good book. 
/t persuaded me that this is possible. 
__ It is surprisingly concrete. 
/t describes exactly what “successful” 
_ teachers do to establish control over their classes. 
(These things 
e subtle, and worth knowing about. 
If you have a child 
who 
has 
to go to a typical public school, you can prepare him for 
the brainwashing he’s going to get.) It also describes concretely 
a teacher must do if he wants to have an honest relationship 
with 
his students, if he wants them to learn something (really), 
4 and he does not want to use authoritarian methods. 
(It’s no: 
__always 
so easy not to fall back on authoritarian methods, no matter 
_ 
how idealistic we are.) It goes on to describe and warn of the 
_ problems that an “open classroom teacher” will have with other 
< 
shers, principals, supervisors. 
They are almost certain to be 
It gives ways of saving your job while maintaining an 
ssroom, and it discusses when it is wisest to sacrifice 
_ Herbel Kohl has been through all of this himself. 
1f you don’t 
kno v 
what it’s like inside the system, his book can tell you some 
tl 
Ss hat will make your hair stand on end. 
[Reviewed by Jane Burton] 
The Open Classroom 
Herbert R. Kohl 
1969; 116 pp. 
$1 .65 postpaid 
from: 
Random House, Inc. 
Westminster, Md. 21157 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
I 
images. 
And it is sometimes a relief to discover that 
are 
good pupils in the class that is waiting for you. Not reading 
recor cards or ignoring the standing of the class is an act of self- 
t 
involves casting aside a crutch when one still believes one 
without it. Yet if one wants to develop an open classroom 
will are n cessary 
in an open classroom needs to cultivate a state of suspended 
ions. It is not easy. 
It is easy to believe that a dull class is dull, 
it 
class is bright. The words “emotionally disturbed” conjure 
2xt 
of a school which is essentially totalitarian, such acts 
Apprenticeship Service Program 
The program intends to give high school age kids an alternative to 
in-school learning by helping and encouraging them to find people 
near or far from home to study with them what they are most 
interested in. Once the teacher and student have met and if they 
feel they can work together, they can work out the details between 
them (length of time working together, expenses, hours, room and 
board or commuting, responsibilities, expected behavior —— 
whatever they feel is important to talk over). We are interested in 
the traditional crafts and trades apprenticeships and apprenticeships 
in such things as farming, business, politics, 
... after which a student 
may be competent to work in that field, and in apprenticeships to 
people such as doctors or lawyers where the student might still have 
to go to college if he wanted to work in that field, but would have 
a sense of what it is like to be a doctor or lawyer. 
To receive high school credit the teenager and teacher would have 
to send us quarterly reports on their work. 
To receive a full year’s 
credit the student would need to work at one or more apprentice- 
ships (maybe some school too) for at least 180 days of the year to 
meet the education code. Teenagers who wish to apprentice but 
do not want to be enrolled in high school can apprentice themselves 
and between the ages of 18-21 (it varies with the state) take high 
school equivalency tests, which upon passing gives them the 
equivalent of a high school diploma. (I do not know if there is a 
similar test in Canada.) The cost of this program for students who 
wish to be enrolled in high school is §200. Scholarships are 
available. 
For those who do not wish to be enrolled we will charge 
$5.00 IF we find you your teacher. Eventually we hope to cover 
these costs out of donations. 
(All donations are tax deductible.) 
Since we have been working on this program we have received many 
letters from teenagers. Some 
are full of wisdom and life, some full 
of determination and life, and some very touching pleas for help 
and life. We need the help of people to share their skills and 
knowledge and/or help finding people who will. We need people 
all over to open up their lives to the young and to encourage those 
around them to do it. If you can be a teacher, or can help us find 
teachers in your area — write. If you would like to be a student in 
this program — write. 
We can create a network of learning — a 
whole nation, a whole earth people’s school 
Apprenticeship Service Program 
P. O. Box 908 
Montara, Calif. 94037 
Tel (415) 728-3578 
There are no simple ways to give up deeply rooted expectations. 
There 
are some suggestions, however: 
—talk to students outside class 
—watch them play and watch them live with other young people 
—play with them——joking games and serious games 
—talk to them about yourself, what you care about 
—listen 
In these situations the kids may surprise you and reveal rather than 
conceal, as is usual in the classroom, their feelings, play fulness, and 
intelligence. 
e 
There is a way a teacher can experiment with non-authoritarian teaching 
and be free of other teachers and supervisors. That way is to work with 
problem students——those students the school system has given up on. 
=f 
Knots 
ey 
= a) 
WANTING TO QUIT 
After the sixth hole, D.R. wanted to quit. 
It wasn’t his body 
that wanted to quit. His hands were hurting a little but his strength 
_ 
was flowing good and his arms and back felt readier to go on with it 
than when he'd started. 
It was something else, some longing, some 
invitation from somewhere deep inside him to lay down the tools 
and just arbitrarily quit. 
Not stop to rest. 
Not go sit down by the barn and lean his back against the wall 
and sip water from the half-gallon Mason jar Leonard had left. 
But quit. 
For the day. 
Just stop right there where he was, ten inches deep into the 
seventh hole, and go down to the store and hang around a while, or 
else on back up to the homeplace for the afternoon. 
It was like some kind of sour bile swimming through his head. 
His hands and arms and back worked on well, but his mind, his 
mind was terribly dissatisfied to be there with nothing to do but 
observe his arms and hand and back. 
His mind was a message to 
him, it was an argument from the very depths of itself to stop this 
work and, at the very least, take it easy for a while. 
Look how much you've already done! it said. Six holes already, 
look at that! 
That's a morning’s work for any man! 
Not for Leonard, D.R. said. 
Fuck Leonard! the message said. You've got the whole after- 
noon to dig these holes. At least go sit down and rest for a couple 
of hours. 
All right, said D-R. Soon as | finish this hole, | will. 
And he dropped the diggers hard into the ground. 
I'll get a start on number seven and then quit, D.R. said. 
Let 
me start number seven and I'll stop a while. 
And he said the same thing again when he had finished the 
seventh hole, and gone on to number eight. 
And then nine, and then ten. 
Let me finish ten, he said. This 
one more, and then I'll quit for the day. 
D.R. finished the tenth hole. He needed the sledge on that one. 
Eight inches down he came into thick rock, and he needed the 
sledge and the bar, and the sledge and the bar together, and then 
the diggers, little pinches of earth and rock at a time. That one hole 
took him over half an hour of solid work, but he finished it, and 
was starting the eleventh hole when Leonard came back with the 
lumber. 
“You getting tired?” he said. 
Not “wow! look how much work you did!” 
Not, “Congratulations, David, you’re the most fantastic hole- 
digger | ever saw.” 
Not even, “It looks like you've worked hard while | was gone.” 
Just, “You getting tired?” 
“Not too bad,” D-.R. said. 
“‘Do that one, and one more while | unload this stuff,” said 
Leonard. *’Then we'll go see what Roxie’s fixed us to eat.” 
Free Schools 
Learning 
‘ 
