=the 
Sa 
ee 
i 
ee 
‘0 till the soil comes near, | think back over our time in 
Not yet a year but enough time to learn much about 
ul land that we dreamed of so long. There is much we 
‘not in a mind blow out but rather in the joy and 
on of creative living. There is a great magnificence to New 
<ic 
the spacial fields the surrounding mountains and mesas, and 
cultural 
individuality of the people. To live in this grand 
tilizing the raw materials, being close with local people and 
ife time home. 
1past doesn’t matter when you come but your skills do. How 
you went to school is unimportant when drinking wine with the 
ians and Mexicans or when carrying water from a couple of miles 
y because the stream froze and the water went underground. The 
you brought are probably the second most important thing. 
and your ability to utilize whatever is around. 
my husband and | left the east, we had each made many scenes 
en many places but the peace that we were seeking always came in 
ural setting. New Mexico told me that there was great wisdom 
be found here. | felt this when | was last here six years ago. So 
le saved, without selling our souls, to get a vehicle to get us across 
untry. We wanted to make my five year old daughter feel com- 
. So my husband built a house on the back of an old flat- 
. This tin roof chicken house was able to house four people, 
) 
dogs and a cat. Seems impossible but he took out the back 
wil idow and made a hole to the house so the animals and small 
people could move around comfortably without stopping. A fifteen 
) 
old boy from the school we taught at came with us. 
most of our people we didn’t have much money, so we wanted 
e the_essentials— warm clothes, tools, plenty of blankets, 
cooking utensils and some craft materials. We had lived in a tipi 
for a year and | forgot how small it closed up to. Three ft wide by 
ft high lining and floor covering included. Our tipi was an eighteen 
footer. We didn’t take the poles because wood would be accessible. 
A 
supply of food was necessary so we never would have to lean on 
ends. There are so many foods that will keep and a larder of 
ins, dried fruits and such could keep us going for a while. 
Our route depended on where our friends lived. Stops along the 
v 
were necessary because of the physical defects of the truck. 
The truck became known as Blood Sweat and Tears and that is 
what it needed to keep it going and of course lots of oil. Actually 
the truck was a joke but with perseverance and cursing we somehow 
ade it to New Mexico. 
From my time on the peyote road | had friends in Santa Fe. We 
Iso knew people who ran a Summerhill school, the Santa Fe 
Community School. Most of the good people had headed for the 
ills. It was summer and the height of the hippy season. The people 
e talked to were so uptight about anyone new. 
Later | understood 
ir situation but then information was all | was seeking. Nota 
jace to crash or a meal just where certain communes and people 
were. The only information | got was where to stay. Hyde Park was 
perfect place. $1.00 a day wasn’t much then. The only difficulty 
going down the mountain with little or no brakes. We were 
joking for a commune some where near Colorado named Libra 
th at's only requirements were that you would support yourself, not 
- build in the sight of anyone else, and you were together enough not 
to bring your problem to others. The scanty information 
we got 
__was that it was near Chama. Of course all we need do was ask 
around. That didn’t seem like much to go on but | didn’t want to 
stay in Santa Fe any longer. 
It seemed like the place to come in the 
_ dead of winter with some hand made goods to sell. The only warmth 
we felt was from the shopkeeper at the Old Santa Fe Trail. 
So up the trail we continued. Of course we never found Libra. But 
_ 
we saw another part of New Mexico. 
| was ready to settle among 
he Mexicans and sell leather goods and pottery to wealthy Texans 
_ that came hunting in northern New Mexico. 
_ We decided to try the Taos area and see some friends at the Hog 
_ 
Farm before we settled. 
| was amazed at the help we got. Taos too 
_ was flooded with wandering people searching. 
Lorien Enterprizes 
had set up an information center where you could find out about 
communes, can food and a lot of other helpful things. Somehow 
we 
landed at a commune called Five Star. 
| liked the feeling of the 
_ 
people camping around. We didn’t want to get too involved so we 
‘stayed on the side lines helping in the garden. The garden these 
‘people planted was plentiful. They did a great job and could have 
_ easily lived on what they produced. Even get off food stamps but 
there were so many people tripping by. | cooked at the big house 
a couple of times and there were between sixty and eighty people. 
It was a favorite spot for Mexicans, Indians, Hippies and straights 
because of the Ponce de Leon Hot Springs. 
It was easy to just sit in 
‘the hot springs drinking with the people gawking at the naked chicks. 
But that wasn’t what we were looking for. There were a few kids 
_ around that my daughter could play with. Most of the trippers were 
young and free and not too interested in working the garden but 
interested in eating. At Five Star about eight or nine people did 
_ most of the work. 
As summer drew to an end we decided to put the tipi up the canyon. 
A friend had checked with a realtor to see if there was land available 
to live on free. My husband was into building a rabbit hutch for 
some 4-H rabbits that were laid on us. 
| was preparing for winter 
by helping canning, picking, pickling and drying foods with the 
Five Star Commune. A pressure cooker was essential for at this 
altitude vegetables had to cook for eight hours. Getting water and 
ting wood was an everyday job but it was doubled when canning. 
si That's when the Information Center came in handy again. 
_ We had picked peaches off the ground at an orchard. Many 
~ commercial orchards will let you pick fruit off the ground. That 
d the wild plums, cherries and with the food Five Star had grown, 
‘canning was a full time project. The Information Center had several 
stoves and info about canning. They had a large kitchen. When | 
was 
there | found out about the other activities of Lorien Enter- 
zes. 
hey put out a paper called The Fountain of Light. Helped runa 
rage called M and M where you could work on your car free using 
eir tools. Ran the General Store where you could buy and sell at 
reasonable prices. Most important they backed the Free Clinic that 
later saved many lives. 
Next year they were planning to open a school. That is when | 
decided to apply for a New Mexican teaching certificate. No matter 
ere we were | would probably be teaching my daughter and other 
_kids. 
| talked to a hippy social worker that dealt with the communes. 
He said a school of any kind was desperately needed. The schools 
had enough trouble assimilating the Mexicans and Indians and they 
didn’t want the problem of long hairs. They were keeping the long 
red boy we brought with us out of school. So we talked about 
ting up a small school at Five Star. | got together with interested 
ople and set up a schedule of what people wanted and could teach. 
New Mexico Road 
Community 
couple thousand people had tripped through the hot springs and 
the pool had never been cleaned. So my husband and a friend that 
th 
Then we met with the kids and found out what they wanted. The 
kids came from the Taos area. There were only ten to begin with. 
Before we got started we were hit with a plague of amoebic dysentery. 
It was the fly season and the mosquito season had just ended. A 
lived with us started hauling water from town. Water was even more 
precious. The hot springs had amoebic dysentery in the algae in the 
pool. Many people were coming down with the dysentery. The Free 
Clinic was filled. 
| was pregnant and they insisted | go into the 
hospital because | too got the bug. The kids and the teachers of this 
new found school all came down with dysentery. 
Going to the hospital was foolish— they did nothing more than | 
did at our tipi. My husband had just built a cook shack out of 
totally scrap lumber. Now sanitation had to be thought of more. 
So an out house was begun. 
It was Sept. and we were getting ready 
for the first snows. There was always some question about whose land 
we were on. Land in New Mexico has been divided up from Spanish 
land grants and passed down to each son in long narrow strips. ‘Of 
course to listen to our Indian friend, they say that all the land around 
Taos belongs to the Pueblo Indians. But if you talk to a Jicaria 
Apache they say that land is theirs for they hunted and camped in 
the area. 
The largest family who owned land near our tipi sight was the 
family. One day an Uncle of the clan from Calif- 
ornia, a cousin from up north and one of our neighbor friends 
happened by our tipi checking cattle. They wanted to know what 
our plans were. How we made our money and what we were going 
to contribute to the economy. When we spoke of being craftsmen 
they said they had their own craftsmen who needed to make a 
living off the tourists. The conversation left a stale air in the tipi. 
Somehow | knew we weren't settled yet. Even though we rarely 
went into Taos, | felt we were too close for comfort. So we started 
asking about land further away. 
| won't go into the sad story of the break up of a community. 
Somehow we were visited every night by several people of the 
commune. The final push was when a group of well dressed Chicanos 
came and told us this was their land. We'd better get off or they 
would bring the sheriff. Our friend checked with the realtor and 
they said they could stay. But we did not want to. 
We had heard about some land about a hundred miles away. 
It had 
been bought by a New York doctor and turned over to God. Our 
truck had broken down a long time ago and been traded for another 
broken down small car. So our next project was to get a truck to 
move us. 
It was the full moon that speeded us up but still it took us four days 
to find an ex-Hells Angel with a classic 1937 flatbed. While some of 
us looked for our Angel others went to visit God’s land.. They came 
back with beautiful stories of running fresh streams, oak groves, 
ponderosa pine forest and mica speckled rocks. What a picture we 
made when we started off with all our possessions. Our family had 
changed and grown to five— a lot of rabbits and dogs. This time 
we took the tipi poles. 
It was great leaving the sage and sand behind. Going over large 
mountains which opened up to lush valleys with cattle and cowboys 
along the road. Our destination was in a valley surrounded by 
mountains. There were five people already here. They had been 
living off the apple and plum orchard and ate heartily when we 
arrived. 
We still didn’t want to be part of a community but being organized 
makes you a nucleus for people to come around. We set up our 
tipi by the stream and further away dug an out house. We agreed 
not to ruin the land in any way. Not to cut any living trees. 
Not to 
build in the sight of one another and try to keep cars off the land. 
There of course could be no rules for people who didn’t believe 
in rules. Since new people would always be coming everything was 
subject to change. 
First the local people were very intersted in this new population. For 
a town of about 100 that are all related, we were an entertainment. 
Cars came up at all hours, sober, drunk, before church and after 
church. Actually the people, whatever condition, were very nice 
and conserned about how we were going to make it. When they 
found out that we were not different from them, the traffic slowed 
down and we made friends with many families. We learned much 
from our neighbors. 
The first snow was a shocking reality to many. 
It weeded out many 
crashers so we could move around a little easier. 
People that didn’t 
even have a warm coat or a good pair of shoes hit the road for Taos. 
We realized that our supply of wood was scanty and we had best get 
to work. We were cooking out doors, as | usually did when we lived 
in the tipi. It was neater and there were now seven people sleeping 
in the tipi. One of the local families came with their twelve kids 
the first snow bringing beans and biscuits. They told us this was an 
early snow and were worried if we were warm enough. Thanks to 
all the blankets we were comfortable. 
The men started to increase our wood pile and | got squaw wood. 
We had two axes but a well meaning tripper who didn’t know what 
he was doing broke our ax handle. 
It would have been good if we 
had another hickory handle for there were no cars on the land. A 
friend of my husband's had learned the skill of making ax handles. 
He found a piece of cak and finished the job with a draw knite, a wood 
rasp and a D-saw. 
The two shovels we brought were essential because the guysstarted to 
dig a house below ground. They had dug six feet in some places. 
Then they were told that the water level rises ten feet and we would 
be flooded come spring. So that project was abandoned. 
A well meaning person in the town told them they could cut timber 
or use tree tops that couldn’t be used for logging. So a week was 
spent in dragging down logging tops, cutting the small branches off 
and cutting them to the correct size for our log cabin. We then 
found out that even though many son, daughters, aunts, uncles, 
cousins and nephews own one piece of land— 
it is the oldest member 
of the family that has to give permission before anything can be 
taken off said land. So logs had to be found some where else. 
In between all the projects of trying to build, we still needed to eat. 
Up until then we had not used food stamps. Somehow one of the 
chicks went down and gave everyone names for food stamps. Our 
winter supply had been depleted by the amount of people we were 
feeding. All time was needed for trying to build so food stamps 
were welcome. But we hoped we would be off them come planting 
season. 
Every time new people came to the land it showed. So luckily only 
the prepared could stay. The tipi 
was comfortable if we had enough 
smokeless wood— dry cedar in combination with split dry oak and 
plenty of kindling. The next cozy temporary shelter were army wall 
tents. 
The guys heard of a national forest where one could get logs that 
were down but couldn’t cut green trees. The fiasco of getting 42 
logs was unbelievable. The first part only took three days. After 
the second part of the trip, the local bar owner told us that we could 
take log tops that he had paid for and did not need. The cabin 
materials were coming together. The guys had gotten eleven vigas 
from helping tear down an old garage. Also most important were 
three sets of eight paned windows. 
When pulling all the materials together they totaled to 16 logs— 
18 feet long and 20 logs— 11 feet long. We bought three truck 
loads of half rounds at $4.00 a truck load. The first project in 
putting this large Lincoln log set together was to debark the logs 
with an ax. The dimensions of the cabin were 21 ft. long by 10 
ft. wide. The vegas were to be used for the back wall with a stone 
fireplace as the center. The 18 footers were cut in half for the 
front leaving 3 ft. for the door. The notches were made with an 
ax for the lower logs and a chisel for the upper logs. After all 
the logs were laid, the four main roof vigas were placed. The roof 
was put on with tar paper and half rounds for latias. Half rounds 
were used for the final layers of roofing. The sloping sides were 
also finished with half rounds. 
Adobe was a new material to work with. 
It was used for chinking 
and the fireplace. 
Its mixture was earth, straw and water. 
Everyone 
including my daughter could help with the adobing. The guys 
hauled rocks from near and far. Four hundred rocks in a jig saw 
puzzle had to fit tight without the adobe. The adobe for the fire- 
place did not have straw and was stuffed into the cracks. Snowwas 
threatening for the seventh time and | was expecting ina month. A 
full stone chimney would have taken too long. They rocked ina 
chimney to the edge of the roof. They then got four pieces of 
stove pipe and took them apart and put two pieces together to 
make the funnel twice as large. They were held together to make 
the funnel twice as large. They were held together by rivets. They 
found a metal earth drag and cut a hole in the top and put it on the 
rock chimney. Then the stove pipes were riveted to the piece of 
metal. An empty fifty pound lard can served as a revolving draft 
control. 
The final projects were done inside. A wood stove had been given 
to us by a local family. Two sleeping lofts were built and a bunk 
for my daughter. Our great Christmas present was moving in before 
a lasting snow from middle Dec. to late Jan. 
The total cost of the cabin was $14. Even cheaper than Thoreau’s 
cabin that cost $28. It took two and a half weeks to build our new 
home. We felt very wealthy in many ways so we traded our tipi so 
others could also feel comfortable. 
There were three cabins on the 
land now all totally individual. 
Now it was time to sit back, relax, create and wait. We had decided 
to deliver the baby ourselves. Midwifery is a dying profession and 
in these parts mid-wifes only speak Spanish and are very old. You 
have to pick them up and since we had no transportation, that 
would be impossible. 
| went in for an examination to the local 
clinic. They couldn't find my veins, my blood pressure and most sus- 
Piciously the fetal heart beat. This seemed strenge because when | 
was in the hospital in Taos they also had difficulty finding the fetal 
heart beat. Also when ever my daughter and | would make a wish, 
! would wish for a healthy baby. We never listen enough to our 
intuition. 
My water broke ona 
night we were invaded by ten people interested 
in the land. Luckily they had a car and children. So my daughter 
tripped off with them. We had all the necessary items ready— hot 
water, lots of towels, sterile gloves, gauze, cotton, bacitracin oint- 
ment in liquid form for the baby’s eyes cradle clothes and some 
tetracyclin to prevent infection. 
It was a simple birth much easier 
than in the hospital. With each contraction | tightly held my husband's 
hand and drifted off into the conversation of the couple who had 
come to help. With a few blood curdling screams, the baby was out. 
| delivered the baby on my daughters bunk and practically crawled 
up the wall for bearing down. Breathing was essential. 
| had prac- 
ticed both the LaMaz method of breathing and exercised during 
Pregnancy. My husband and friend had been prepared by the doctor 
who owned the land on what to do. Not to cut the umbilical cord 
right away. Clean the baby’s eyes out and not worry about the 
vernix caseosa. 
For it was most important to keep the baby warm. 
We had a roaring fire in the stove and fireplace. A Coleman lantern 
gave off so much light it almost blinded us. All seemed well; | felt 
great and was waiting to pass the afterbirth. My husband noticed the 
baby wasn’t breathing steadily. After dressing the baby | held him 
and realized that even with my warmth and many blankets our son 
was cold. As much as | hated to we called the local clinic from a 
neighbor's store, three miles away. We wanted to give our son every 
opportunity for life. 
A doctor and a nurse came at dawn. What a farce. He had the wrong 
emergency bag, didn’t know how to work the oxygen tent, insisted 
it would require an operation to pass the afterbirth. So my husband, 
our baby and | went into the clinic twenty miles away. The doctor 
was annoyed and left a nurse in charge. 
| easily passed the after 
birth and my husband took care of the baby. He took a stethoscope 
and realized that breathing had stopped. As well as delivering his son 
he also made out his death certificate. We wanted to bury our son on 
the land nearby, so some red tape had to be dealt with. Luckily the 
visitors picked us up and we returned home. 
An Indian Friend stopped by that day. he told us not to worry and 
forget. We didn’t want to forget; we were sad then but that was natural 
and soon we would be able to talk about the short life of our son. 
There are many beautiful things in a world of nature that can cure all 
sorts of wounds. We had much to be thankful for. 
The snow melted— we tripped— and began to build and create. An 
outhouse was again dug and built. That was a great luxury. 
In between 
building the guys began to hike up some of the mountains. They could 
see for hundreds of miles. They made all sorts of discoveries about the 
area. The mountain would be a source of inspiration always. My 
daughter and | climbed to a small ridge and sat a long time listening to 
the winds. 
When they came down they brought a new material for working, 
antler. They spent many hours making antier pipes, buttons and 
knife handles. My husband works with leather so after having made 
enough serviceable clothes for himself, he started to make things to 
sell. | got into making candles and ordered some pottery supplies. 
With hand made goods and our coming garden, we should be able to 
be self sufficient. 
The summer I'm sure will bring an onslaught of people that can’t be 
turned away. The land can only hold so many people and we do not 
want to bring a city condition to such a perfect setting. So we look 
to the hills for the future. Land with no roads to it where we can 
build a stone house and live again on a new frontier. 
L. 
