enn 
Something on Fly 
Fishing 
by Michael Athay 
Rocky Hill, New Jersey 
ANGLING: For trout: with artificials. 
def.: A trout fly is part fur, feather, floss, tinsel, and sometimes 
horsehair; secured with black thread (in the jargon, ‘tied’) to a 
fishhook in hopes of replicating a bug accurately enough to fool a 
trout into eating it; and thereby getting caught. 
Tyers of trout flies, like their quarry, come 
in schools. 
Three pre- 
dominate (the authority for this classification is myself): (1) the 
‘exact imitation’ school; (2) the ‘follow a pattern’ school; (3) the 
‘tie a pretty fly’ school. The division is normative. Adherents of 
school (1) definitely are the elite, because they not only build bugs— 
they spend hours and hours crawling along muddy river and stream- 
banks peering at the principles through large magnifying glasses 
and telephoto lenses. Their object is to find out personally what 
insects the trout are eating this evening. They want a fur-and- 
feather copy of the real thing. Entomology first; fill-the-creel 
later. Pattern followers, on the other hand, are content to turn to 
pages 88 threygh 96 of Herter’s Professional Fly Tying Manual 
(revised condensed edition), where they find explicit instructions 
for Bumblepuppies, Nymphos, Woodruff Spent Wings, and a few 
score other standard fish-favorites. 
This a priori method obviously 
has its disadvantages: A standard fly pattern modelled on the pale 
watery dun common to Southern England’s Chalk Streams may or 
may not have much to do with the day’s hatch on Big Lost River 
above Mackay, Idaho. As for school (3), well, they just aren't 
Serious fly fishermen. I’ve known these types to show prodigious 
technique, but 
how can you expect to catch real live fish ona 
green-hackled, purple-bellied absurdity, however ‘aesthetic’? 
If I've managed to get you thinking along ‘exact imitator’ lines, 
you ll have to know something about ‘fly-fishing entomology’, as 
the initiates call it. This is an informal version of what one kind 
of biologists do— 
viz., determine, describe, and classify the kinds 
of bugs fish eat in different seasons and locales. 
The best book 
Ive seen on the subject ts John Goddard’s Trout Fly Recognition. 
Unfortunately for us, Mr. Goddard is an Englishman who writes 
about English insects. Even so, a lot of the information is of use 
to fishermen on this side, especially as a good introduction to 
insect classifications, techniques of observation, and so on. 
(More 
than one author in this area intimates that many of the bugs British 
fish eat have near or exact counterparts on American streams.) 
The best thing about Goddard’s book is plate after plate of color 
photographs of the insects he discusses— 
all of them large enough 
and detailed enough to serve as models for tying. A little field 
work, ora 
visit to your biologist friend, will quickly establish the 
relevance of this book for the streams you like to f 
Goddard 
also provides instructions on photographing live insects, and de- 
tailed photographs and drawings of insect wings— 
the hardest part 
of the fishing fly to reproduce well. 
Several good books on insects common to American streams have 
been published, but they tend to go in and out of print rather 
quickly. Ernest G. Schwiebert, Jr’s Matching the Hatch is one sound 
treatise currently available. Schwiebert describes common trout 
flies found both in the Eastern and Western parts of the country. 
This alone makes the book valuable, for most books tend to deal 
only with East coast streams. He provides classifications of flies 
according to the approximate season of their appearance, and in- 
cludes four color plates of drawings of mayflies. 
The plates are 
good enough to reproduce flies from. 
The classics of American fly fishing entomology are Preston 
Jennings A Book of Trout Flies and Art Flick’s New Streamside 
Guide to Naturals and Their Imitation. The first is a handsome hard- 
cover volume, with copious and detailed illustrations of insects. 
It 
deals mainly with the East coast. My objection to the Flick book 
is its diminutive size, poor binding, and (relative to what you get) 
large price. 
These books will only get you started, though. If you come to take 
this side of 
fly fishing seriously, you will have to do your own ento- 
mology, for another man’s investigations of his favorite streams 
probably will not apply very exactly to yours. Goddard’s book is 
by far the best model for your own field work. 
Pictures of bugs won’t tell you how to tie imitations of them. If 
you are a beginner who wants instructions in the basics, I suggest 
the Herter’s manual afore-mentioned (available, of course, from 
Herter’s Inc., for a mere 89 cents in the condensed version— 
which 
is all you need) and J. Edson Leonard’s Flies. Herter’s gives you the 
basics, with George L.’s usual remarks about the impossibility of 
doing it any other way, plus a list of patterns. Leonard's book is 
very detailed and complete (340 pp.), including chapters on hook 
design ( you will be surprised how many sorts of eye, point, shank, 
and shape are to be found in the common fishhook), tools, and 
materials, as well as construction. He gives good tips on tying 
technique which you won't find in the Herter’s manual. His 
dictionary of fly patterns runs some 80 pages and could keep you 
tying for decades. He also includes a 50-odd page chapter on 
entomology which serves as an adequate introduction. 
If you want 
just one book on fly tying, this is it. 
I can't imagine anyone wanting more patterns than Leonard lists, 
but if you do, a series of books by Bnitisher W. H. Lawrie certainly 
should suffice. Most notable is his Reference Book of English 
Trout Flies, and his International Trout Flies (which includes some 
American patterns). Both are published in England, but should be 
available through Blackwells. 
The predominance of 
British bugs 
does not make them irrelevant, assuming you've given up becoming 
an amateur entomologist, because most of the standard patterns 
you find in the local tackle shop are of British origin anyway. 
Let’s suppose you've done your field work on the native insects, 
become a master at tying technique, and stocked up on as many of 
the standard patterns as you can use for the next three seasons. 
You’re all ready to go out and catch a limit, but you don’t know 
how to casta fly. 
Well, there’s a book for this too. Indeed, a legion 
of them. 
I recommend just one, however, because it is excellent: 
The Angler's Cast, by Capt. T.L. Edwards and E. Horsfall Turner. 
This book has more information on every kind of fishing rod casting 
— 
bait, spinning, ocean, etc., as well as fly casting— than you can 
possibly remember. 
The authors discuss everything from physical 
theory of rod action to the kind of tackle you ought to buy. The 
account of 
fly casting is detailed and pleasingly undogmatic— 
you 
needn’t conform to any ideal casting patterns in order to catch 
fish— if.a bit wordy. Pictures and diagrams show you how to do 
what the text tells you. 
Fishing 
Nomadics 
Spin Fishing 
I'm a nut on survival and this spinning reel gadget is a beauty. 
Called a handline spinning reel it's a hard plastic, 6’ diameter 
like a wheel. You hold the thing with one hand, and lariet 
fashion, cast with the other. The line spins off the reel as on 
a regular open faced spinning reel, but since this handline reel 
is 6’ in diameter compared to 2" or 3”’ of a fresh or salt water 
reel, the line spins off faster, with less fouling, and also the retrieve 
is much faster. Naturally there is a lot against handline fishing. No 
rod to play the fish and to take the punishment the fish gives out. 
The pull is directly on the line and not on the rod so the line must 
be stronger. 
But I’m talking now about a cheap rig to carry any- 
place with you and one that will land all kinds of fish. 
I’ve had 
more fun with the thing than any rod and reel combination. 
As you know spin fishing (where the fish line pays off the face 
of the spool instead of the reel) is a very old way of fishing. Even 
before the invention of the bottle or can, indians fished in the 
spin off style using a kind of wooden shuttle. People throughout 
the world spin fish off bottles and cans. 
In Mexico it’s called 
the Dos Equies reel after that famous dark beer. 
In Australia they 
use handline spinning reels similar to this Boone Bait Co product 
in three sizes going from a five inch to a ten inch. 
| bought one 
of these in Trinidad as Trinidad imports from Australia. The 
word on this Boone reel is that years ago the Japanese dropped 
off such a reel in the West Indies. The Cubans then got onto the 
thing and it made its way through Key West and now to Winter 
Park. 
Yaup_ronsker 
WUDP 
HAGE 
N 
\} 
4 Hh DO NOT HAt 
QR Y7 poor 
wave uires 
WIND HACKLE BETWEEN. 
"3 sl 
AEB ~AiD SECURE ATA 
Source for fly tying tools and supplies: Herter’s Inc., Waseca, 
Minnesota. 
Books mentioned in the review: 
Goddard, Trout Fly Recognition, 
pub. A & C Black, London, 1966. 
Hardcover, available from Blackwells. 
Leonard, Flies, A.S. Barnes & Co., New York, 1950, hardcover. 
Herter, G.L., Professional Fly Tying Manual, (revised, condensed 
edition) available from Herter’s Inc., Waseca, Minn. 
Edwards & Turner, The Angler's Cast, pub. Jenkins, London, 1960; 
hard cover, available from Blackwells. 
Jennings, A Book of Trout Flies, new ed. by Crown Publishers, 1970, 
hardc over. 
Schweibert, Matching the Hatch, Macmillan Co., N.Y., 1955, 
hardcover. 
Flick, New Streamside Guide to Naturals and Their Imitation, 
Crown Publishers, hardcover. 
Lawrie, W. H., Reference Book of English Trout Flies, pub. Pelham 
Books (British), 1967 
Lawrie, W.H., \nternational Trout Flies. 
| like to use 25 Ib monofilament line on mine although you can 
use from 15 to 50 Ib. Fill it up (25 Ib test will take about 300 
yards) to within a half inch of the flange, whirl the lure along 
side or around your head and cast. 
Retrieve smoothly or in short 
bumps. 
I'm speaking now of lure fishing. With lead and bait of course you 
just let it lie in position until you feel the nibble-strike. 
As | say 
\’m hung up on survival but I'm also a purist about fishing. 
| 
never use bait, only lures, and only single hooked lures, perhaps a 
spoon or two, but | prefer jigs. Leadheaded jigs. My favorites 
are: 
1. The Bill Upperman bucktails. 
2. The chrome headed 
Japanese feather jigs. 
Ten years ago off a beach just north of Puerto Vallarta | was 
casting a Japanese white feather jig off a ‘Dos Equis” reel and 
picking up a channel bass or two and snook. 
But it was hot and | 
had already drank the beer in order to use the reel and so! took 
to the sea, carrying my beer can reel and line and lure with me. 
Thus began the most pleasure I've ever had. 
| call it Swim Fishing. 
Now these days! take the Boone reel out with me, 25 Ib test mono 
on it, and a bucktail (% oz) on the end. Off the beaches in Santa 
Monica Bay I've caught halibut, skip jack tuna, small blue shark, 
leopard shark, bonito, mackeral, sand bass, calico bass, white sea 
bassin 
cnn 
For bottom feeders | merely kick (using swim fins) along slowly 
and let the lure bounce off the bottom. 
For bonito, etc, | swim 
flat out, holding the reel in one hand and in this way giving the 
jig action with each stroke. When the water is clear and in the 
kelp beds of Point Dume or Laguna Beach | wear a face plate 
and snorkel, dive and look for the fish. 
I’ve been in a salad of 
kelp and into a school of calico and placed my yellow Upperman 
right on the table of sand before them. 
Letting out line | kick 
to the surface. Then yoyo the lure. Wham, a strike. 
I’ve caught great barracuda and mangrove snapper in the Bahamas, 
snook in Trinidad, Pompano in Cozumel and the Virgin Islands, 
Ulua in Hawaii and the Tuamotus, flounder off Hong Kong, jack 
in the Phillippines, and once | foul hooked a two ton Manta Ray 
off Yelapa, Mexico. 
The beauty with swim fishing is that you swim the water the boats 
can't work. You also work ten times the water that a surf fisherman 
can because you present your lure parallel to shore, fishing it all 
the way. One of my finest experiences swim fishing was when a 
surf was running off Ft Lauderdale, Florida. 
| had my lure out 
behind me, resting on the bottom. 
| held onto my Boone reel. 
Here comes a wave. 
| body surfed it in and on the way got a big 
strike. 
| rode the wave to shore and reeled in a three pound Jack 
Crevalle. 
Available for $2.00 plus shipping from Handline Spinning Reel, 
Boone Bait Co., Inc., Box 571, Forsyth Road, Winter Park, Fla. 
32790 
I've got another good gimmick for you. You ought to check it 
out. You can’t buy it in retail stores, and | don’t know why. 
I've never seen it for sale, always send to the source for mine. 
Over the past ten years I’ve had four of them and they are by 
far the best and cheapest barbq outfit on the market. 
OLD SMOKEY. 
Looks like two galvanized tin pails sitting mouth 
on top of mouth. 
Hot smoke oven (better than that expensive but 
chic Japanese cooker) with two drafts for control (as good if not 
better than Weber and much cheaper). 
| use ours for everything. 
No burn. 
No flare ups. 
If fat on meat 
does flare, just close drafts somewhat. 
| cook whole turkeys and 
chickens. 
Set them on lemon slices in foil boat and on grill and 
pop on cover and leave. No turning. 
Baste some. 
No spits needed. 
Sometimes | use wet smoke chips. Fabulous for salmon which | 
have cooked whole or in steaks. 
I’ve got both size Smokey’s but 
use the No. 14 (14 inch diameter) more often 
OLD SMOKEY, Burkhead Mfg Co, 1920 Harrington, PO Box 4, 
Houston, Texas 77001 
No. 14 is $9.95, No. 18 is $14.95. No shipping charges. 
Ben Masselink 
Pacific Palisades, CA 
Spear Fishing 
For $125 | have been feeding our entire community of eleven 
adults and four children. $125 will buy you an entire spear 
fishing outfit at Steeles (Telegraph, Oakland). For vegetables, 
flour, dope and whiskey | trade my surplus. To learn, find 
somebody who is an expert diver and apprentice yourself. I’m 
available for advice. 
Alan Graham 
Caspar, CA 
