Recent technological advances with urethane foams in 
application, fabrication, and product control have led to 
the current wave of experimentation. Designers such as 
Douglas Deeds and Felix Drury are working on structural 
applications of foam, hoping to achieve free-form buildings. 
Equipment for spraying is expensive: a foam rig is $1,500- 
7,000, and foam itself runs about 10¢ per board foot (1° x 
12”, one inch thick) if you’re doing your own application, 
and buying bulk materials. 
Its biggest applications now are 
in roofing and as insulation. 
This book describes a government sponsored project to 
determine the potential use of foam for housing in under- 
developed areas. 
/t may well be that building codes, unions, 
lumber lobby interests, etc., will hold up foam development 
in the U. S., and that the real advances will be made in other 
countries. Details are given here on several years of testing 
various structural applications of polystyrene and polyure- 
thane foams. 
There are pictures, construction details, drawings, 
graphs and charts on test results. Since this work was done 
several years ago, recent improvements in foams may have 
superceded some of the conclusions. 
—Lloyd Kahn 
[Suggested by Ron Brooks & Ron Swenson] 
Architectural Research on Structural Potential 
of Foam Plastics for Housing in 
Underdeveloped Areas 
Architectural 
Research Lab. 
1966; 224 pp. 
$5.00 plus postage from: 
Publication Distribution Service 
University of Michigan 
615 East University 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 
't is clearly to the interest of the plastic industry in the United States 
to enter the housing field on such a global scale. As the section on 
marketing aspects brings out, the industry is caught in a squeeze be- 
tween steadily increasing surplus production capacities and a falling 
Price curve for the basic chemicals. Housing looms as a most 
attractive mass market—chemicals would be bought by the ton, not 
just by the pound—but attempts to penetrate the housing field in the 
United States have been frustrated because of local building code 
restrictions and the opposition of established interests in the conven- 
tional way of building. In entering the housing field, the plastics 
producers will find better opportunities for success if initially they 
turn to the emerging countries where the building codes are less 
restrictive (if indeed any exist at all) and where there is consequently 
more freedom to develop a new kind of building industry. 
e 
Construction Bargaineer 
Just like Rock and Dirt (p. 77). Heavy equipment, used 
and surplus. 
—SB 
Construction Bargaineer 
$5 /yr (24 issues) 
from: 
The Construction Bargaineer 
P.O. Box 1061 
St. Paul, Minnesota 55105 
; 
CARGO 
TRAILERS 
-2wHe- 
gf 
5,000# 
Cap. 
- 
Metal 
Body w/Front & 
Rear Drop Gate 
Air over Hyd. Brakes 
- 
1100x20 or 900x20, 12 ply Tires 
- Front 
Caster - Body Dim. 110” L, 74” 
W. Wt, 2300# Excellent!.... 
*139 
4x 4 PICK UP 
/ 
fe 
2 
3 /4., 
‘Rie 
A 
@ Similar to a Jeep but twice ihavsizel 
@ Very Low Miles 
@ Excellent 
SPECIAL! While 
_ $ 
Quantity Lasts!... 
1 ,250 EA 
AUGERS 
Tod! 
= 
+ 
nd 
ol 
The shell was suspended and loaded with 20 |b sand bags to simulate 
uniform loading. 
- 
Petroleum is becoming increasingly the raw material for plastics 
intermediates. 
- 
Office room transformed into grotto by designer Douglas Deeds, 
San Diego. Deeds built foam up in layers, as coils of clay are 
used to form a pot. 
Vacuum forming: ABS foam, marketed by U.S. Rubber Co. under 
the name ‘Expanded Royalite’...in sheet form is clamped in a station- 
ary frame, heated, and then drawn into a female mold by vacuum.... 
The fewer the joints, the fewer are the problems the structure will 
have to face...lightness in structures can lead to some special problems 
of anchorage. 
e 
The cellular plastics admittedly have certain technical limitations. 
For instance, they have a low moduli of elasticity and high creep 
characteristics. These properties definitely restrict the way they can 
be formed or shaped, if they are to be used as independent structural 
materials. 
Adhesive Engineering Company 
these guys are doing what construction people never 
figured could be done. they take structures like 
collapsed concrete. bridges, jack them back into place, 
inject some adhesive, and the bridge is stronger than 
before it collapsed. They print a pamphlet called 
Construction Adhesives Coatings and Sealants, and they 
provide information and survey to about every 
possible application of industrial gluing. 
alan kalker suggested it, through herb grubb. alan’s 
idea was that there might be an application here for 
prepoured concrete dome sections. just pour the 
sections, hoist them inplace, and stick them together. 
~jd 
Information 
free 
from: 
Adhesive Engineering Company 
1411 Industrial Road 
San Carlos, California 94070 
_ 
+ 
‘ 
; 
ec: 
. 
i 
Closed cell foam plastics offer excellent thermal insulation (with 
K- 
factors usually varying from 0.12 to 0.30) low water absorption and 
low moisture permeabilitv. 
e 
Plastic materials, particularly the foam plastics, unquestionably have 
a high potential for housing use in the developing areas of the world. 
Spray techniques have good possibilities for the construction of total 
structures using either air-inflated structures or lightweight armatures 
as form work; the present crude appearance of sprayed foam products 
can be overcome by mechanizing the spray gun or by using extremely 
skilled operators. 
Plastic Hinges 
This tough hinge was flexed 1,000,000 times without breaking. 
Comes in rolls, about 30¢ per foot. Fact sheet “Polyhinge” from: 
a ila i 
f-——__—_——1.5"5 
—_—_—_—_ 
too 
Stokes Molded Products 
75 Taylor Street 
Trenton, N. J. 08604 
Lock and Key Extrusion 
A simple way to install glass or plastic windows in wood 
or metal panels. Information from: 
Alasco Rubber & Plastics Corp. 
i 
KEY 
839 Malcolm Road 
Burlingame, CA 
ASSEMBLY 
Foam Guns 
Guns & pumping systems for epoxy, urethane foam, elasto- 
mers and silicons. Information from: 
FP-10 $57.75 
10 Cubic Feet, 120 Board Feet 
— Consists of: 
1—Twin Pak carton container 
2— Pressurized Component 
Tanks (1 “A and 1 “B") 
6—Mizer Nozzles (3 rd., 3 fan) 
2—6' Lengths ¥e™ |.D. Hose 
w/%s"-20 Connections 
| 
1—Gun type dispenser w/Valve 
Protectors 
1 Carton — Ship. 
Wt. 27 Ibs. 
ES eee 
W. E. Mushet Co. 
725 Bryant Street 
San Francisco, CA 94107 aa 
ee 
Low-cost, small-job home foam dispensers. 
Foam Design 
Deeds Design Associates 
1706 West Arbor Drive 
San Diego, CA 92103 
For the first time in my life | began living without a plan. 
Time and space went out of my mind as concepts as | worked to 
let go of every memory of my early life. 
It was a period of wan- 
dering, alone, traveling light, sometimes with only a pack on my 
back, hitch-hiking when | was broke, driving old cars when | 
could afford to buy them. 
| would drive the old cars till they fell 
apart, then hitch-hike again till | got enough money together to 
buy another old car. 
| was insane a lot in those days. Half the 
insanity of my life came from watching my cars fall apart around 
me, and being unable to fix them. And yet, it was fascinating. 
| learned much from the experience of those cars. Those cars 
gave me my first important insights into how all things are made 
of separate parts, and how those parts come together as wholes. 
I'd buy a car and drive it thinking that | had bought one thing 
and then go crazy when it would turn out | hadn’t bought one 
thing at all, but a hundred things, a thousand things that had to 
fit and work together or they couldn’t work at all. Fuel pumps, 
water pumps, head gaskets, oil filters, coils, tires, tubes, king pins, 
bushings, rocker arms, brake linings, horns, lights, steering wheels, 
transmission systems, a thousand parts that needed oil and grease 
and special measuring of lengths and widths and timings in between. 
| couldn't cope with that realization at first. There were times 
when a fuel pump would go out and all | could think to do was 
walk away, just abandon the entire car. 
| had no mechanical skill, 
and no patience to learn any. As | brooded about this idea, as 
that long string of broken cars forced me, literally drove me into 
this painful experience of the separate parts of machines, | began 
to see how everything is made up of parts, how the whole world, 
the whole cosmos is nothing but an incredibly large heap of parts. 
And it was then that | went truly crazy. 
For if all the world 
was a heap of parts, then where was the guarantee that all those 
parts would keep on working? Where was the guarantee that the 
one necessary part that held it all together, the screw or the pump 
or the axle or the philosophical theory the world just had to have 
to keep going, was not going to break or wear out or get lost at 
precisely the moment the world needed it the most? 
| think the insight that finally broke me and made me voice- 
less, took away my very power to utter words, was the recognition 
that language itself is made of parts, little bits and pieces we call 
vowels and consonants, verbs, nouns, adjectives. conjunctions, 
the parts of speech, you see. 
The Parts! 
(continued) 
Materials 
Shelter 
