7 
Ac on A 
om Freedom News, February 1970) _ 
to long range cultural change, Ecology Action ts interested 
In this endeavor we attempt to practice what we preach, 
that end have begun converting the vehicles upon which we 
‘astonally rely to propane gas (also butane). 
culled the following information from Imperial Rock Gas of 
ond. 
mre interested in doing something about air and water pollution 
nd drive a gasoline fueled, internal combustion engine vehicle, 
to propane. Conversion is a simple, financially beneficial 
ition which reduces your vehicle’s harmful emissions by 50%. 
e estimates go as high as 75% to 80% reduction in harmful 
ns. 
are other ways to reduce your personal impact on the environ- 
_ of course, and several alternatives to pouring gasoline wastes 
the eco-system. Walking is the best alternative of all, and 
ic transportation use reduces your impact. 
Gas turbines, steam driven and electric engines all produce less harm- 
l exhausts than the present gasoline engine, but these alternatives 
e not possible ones for most people, for a variety of reasons. 
tric, steam and gas turbines cannot be made available to any 
icant number of persons soon enough. 
Propane is different. You can go to a local propane dealer who 
es conversions and have your car running on propane in one 
That’s how long it normally takes. 
2 cost is approximately $300 from which you can shave substantial 
ounis in a variety of ways. Labor costs about $40, but the job is 
_ simple enough so that anyone with rudimentary mechanical know- 
ledge can do it. 
4ow it Works: 
Basically: A special carburetor replaces the air 
ter; a heat exchanger is mounted under the hood and connected 
(0 the water hose that runs to the heater; a fuel line must be run to 
_ 
the tank which is usually mounted in the trunk. 
: ‘Auto Engines and Electrical Systems 
_ There are a number of books available on how to repair 
_ automobile engines, but not many which explain so well 
as this one does why each part is designed as it is, why 
certain repair procedure is used, or what causes the 
wear on a worn part. | wanted a book which would help 
me to understand the details of engine design and construc- 
_ tion instead of just how to fix them; and | was extremely 
__ pleased to find that this book does both. Its explanations 
_are clear, concise, complete, and profusely and excellently 
_ illustrated. 
Its authors obviously know what they are 
| 
__ talking about, and write well. 
There is no bullshit and 
no excessive technical jargon, just good solid information. 
- Itis practically oriented, written as a textbook for mech- 
_anics, to provide the groundwork of basic knowledge a 
echanic should have. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Marv Vickers] 
~ 
fo Engines’ 
ELEETRICAL SYSTEMS 
Auto Engines 
and Electrical Systems 
$1 0.06 postpaid 
: i 
i 4 
from: 
Motor 
250 W. 55th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
REMOVE 
THERMOSTAT 
REMOVE 
FAN BELT 
Fig. 38 Combustion leakage test of cool- 
ing system. Air bubbles in engine outlet 
with engine running confirms this 
HO 
a 
Vehicle Repair 
Nomadics 
n 
cost, 
owner may not feel he can afford conversion. But, 
as ; economists 
; 
point out, cost is a relative concept against which we must pose 
benefits, and the benefits of propane are substantial. 
. 
: 
First, as previously mentioned, the use of propane cuts harmful 
emissions by 50%, thus reducing air pollution directly and water 
pollution indirectly (hydrocarbons and other exhaust products are 
inevitably washed off the road by rain or precipitated out of the 
air). 
Another benefit is that the use of propane can increase the life of a 
new engine from 2—10 years. According to Mr. Carl Warner of © 
Imperial Rock Gas in Richmond, forklift truckers, who have used 
propane for many years because of its lower emissions and the 
enclosed, indoor nature of much of their work, claim at least a 
5—2 ratio of improved engine life. This is because, in part, the 
Propane enters the engine as a gas, not as a liquid, and sludge and 
carbon are essentially eliminated. 
Fuel Cost is Lower: Still another benefit of propane cost is fuel 
cost. Only one grade of propane is distributed: 
a high octane 
grade comparable to high test gasoline. The cost, in the Bay Area, 
ts about twenty-four cents per gallon. Though the per gallon mileage 
of propane is about 3% less than gasoline, the consumer still saves 
a considerable amount, which, even excluding longer engine life, 
makes propane conversion profitable over the long run. 
‘ae 
Cal Gas of Sacramento claims other propane benefits: cuts main- 
tenance costs; cleaner oil; longer spark plug life——no carbon to 
foul spark plugs; instant cold weather starting——no flooding or 
choking of carburetor; fuel pump problems eliminated because 
there is no fuel pump. 
Another consideration the potential propane converter makes is the 
availability of the fuel. Most cities of 50,000 or more have propane 
supply outlets. National and state listings are available from gas 
companies usually on request. 
But even without careful planning the propane motorist need not 
fear being stranded without fuel, for the standard conversion oper- 
Books About Fords 
Restoration manuals, service bulletins, buff books. 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Polyprints 
Box 31207 
San Francisco, CA 94131 
Hemmings Motor News 
A 100 page magazine full of ads for Ford and Non-Ford cars 
and parts and literature and misc...that’s ‘‘Hemmings Motor 
News!” Lots of pictures make the whole thing worth while 
for the person with a casual interest in old cars. (Almost- 
all the cars advertised are vintage or antique...but not all of 
them.) It’s monthly and cheap. 
The publishers are coming out with a magazine called ‘Special 
Interest Autos” that looks good. It will be available for 
about five bucks per year. Looks like it will be interesting, 
but you can decide for yourself. Get the ‘Hemmings Motor 
News” first and it will tell you where to send off for 
“Special Interest Autos.’’ The former is the real tool, the 
fatter looks like it might be fun. 
David O. Weaver 
Hemmings Motor News (monthly) 
Witchita, Kansas 
$2.75/yr. 3rd class; 
$9/yr 1st class 
$13.50/yr airmail 
from: 
Hemmings Motor News 
Box 380 
Bennington, Vt. 05201 
ads 
Armored Money Truck 1920 Wells Fargo body, 1939 Reo nose 
and chassis. Bulletproof walis and windows. 70 per cent 
restored, sandblasted, primed, interior completed. $400. 
Free delivery. 
D. Donovan, 
1132 Washington 
St., East 
Bridgewater, Mass., 02333. 
as AUTO & KE 
SSS 
ee 
ao 
Rass 
Would You Believe! Real, authentic captured Russian Jeep! 
1966 vintage, complete. Good, restorable condition. Be tne 
first in your neighborhood, or city, or state, or even the 
United States! Only $2,000.00. Aadlen Brothers, 11590 Tuxford 
Street, Sun Valley, California, 91352. Phone (213) 875-1400. 
; 
., 
; 
oy eee about $20 ex oa must ibe spent for adap tive CouiDwiene 
The higher the compression ratio of your engine the more efficiently 
it will run on propane (compression usually corresponds to engine 
size and number of 
cylinders but not always, so check your owner's 
manual). 
Pressure Conversion: 
In addition to converting your own car, you 
can take a step toward lessening pollution by encouraging other 
individuals, industry and government to convert. Some steps have 
been proposed already in this area, e.g., Reagan's claim that state 
vehicles were to be converted and recently publicized intentions of 
Contra Costa vehicle conversions. Concerned individuals should keep 
track of these intentions. 
If you want better quality air and water enough to do something, 
but don’t think you can afford the initial cash outlay for conversion, 
you might consider trading in your.present car for one worth about 
$300 less and use the difference. You'll make it back in ges savings. 
Further, remember that propane is only a partial and interim solution 
to pollution. Even with a converted car, you still are responsible for 
concrete highways, noise, congestion, Santa Barbara oil leaks and 
Torrey Canyon shipwrecks. The answers to these problems lie with 
a deeper commitment to a quality life; with walking and relearning 
the joys of bicycle riding. 
Distributed as a public service by Ecology Action Educational Institute 
Box 9334 
Berkeley, California 94709 
Phone: 
(415) 843-1820 
e 
| have heard of a. new car dealer who is using a free propane 
conversion as a way to boost sales of his left over 1969 
models. 
{Hillsdale Dodge in San Mateo, spec.) He also 
tries to sell a propane conversion with all new car sales 
($500 per) by giving the customer a stiff lecture about 
civic duty and air pollution.—Fred 
Truck Repair Manual 
If you have a truck, chances are marvelous you 
spend a fair amount of your time under it or 
in the front end of it. Judicious use of this 
book might save you some down-time. It 
covers the gamut of trucks and tractors, 1960- 
69, and has better than usual jilustrations of 
how to get at. what you’re working on. 
Motor’s Truck Repair Manual 
—SB 
1969; 1154 pp. 
$1 7.00 postpaid from: 
Motor Book Department 
250 West 55th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
Maintenance 
one way to force detroit to stop producing tinny 
chromedup pieces of shit is to stop buying what 
they produce, spend a little time operating on old 
terminal cases and, through the miracle of transplant, 
give the old ’57 ford retractable another ten years of 
life. old cars run just as well as new ones, if the driver 
knows enough about his machine to keep it running. 
factory service manuals have the best information. 
~jd 
Wheels 
If you are out in the woods and are needing to get into heavier 
vehicles a specialty magazine is Four Wheeler, not commonly 
available on many newsstands. 
You can get it for $.60 per copy 
when you can find it or for $5.00 per year. Road tests, conversions, 
accessories like winches, parts, etc. 
From: 
Four Wheeler 
P.O. Box 845 
Reseda, Ca 91335 
If you’re into sports cars and some just can’t get out of ‘em, 
Road & Track is the BEST for road tests and technical stuff. 
Pretty bourgeois but fine photography and text. §.75 each or $7.00 
for 1 year subscription. 
Road and Track 
“ 
1499 Monrovia Ave. 
Newport Beach, CA 92663 
Kam 
Nevada City, CA 
aay ame 
