On Growth and Form 
; 
A paradigm classic. Everyone dealing with growth or form 
in any manner can use the book. We’ve seen worn copies 
on the shelves of artists, inventors, engineers, computer 
systems designers, biologists. 
On Growth and Form 
D'Arcy 
Two volume edition 
1917, 1952 
$27.50 postpaid 
Abridged paper edition 
1917, 1 
$2.75 postpaid 
from: 
Cambridge University Press 
510 North Avenue 
New Rochelle, N. Y. 10801 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fig. 143. (@) Harpinia plumosa Kr.; (6) Stegocephalus inflatus Kr.; 
(c) Hyperia galba. 
nm 
Wentworth Thompson 
DERCY THOMPSON 
4 On Growth 
and Form 
961; 346 pp. 
VOLUME TL 
When Plateau made the wire framework of a regular 
tetrahedron and dipped it in soap-solution, he ob- 
tained in an instant a beautifully symmetrical system 
of six films, meeting three by three in four edges and 
these four edges running from the corners of the fig- 
ure to its centre of symmetry. Here they meet, two 
by two, at the Maraldi angle; and the films meet 
three by three, to form the re-entrant solid angle 
which we have called a ‘Maraldi pyramid” in our 
account of the architecture of the honeycomb. 
The very same configuration is easily recognized in 
the minute siliceous skeleton of Callimitra. There 
are two discrepancies, neither of which need raise 
any difficulty. The figure is not rectilinear but a 
spherical tetrahedron, such as might be formed by 
the boundary edges of a tetrahedral cluster of four 
co-equal bubbles; and just as Plateau extended his 
experiment by blowing a-small bubble in the centre 
of his tetrahedral system, so we have a central bub- 
ble also here. 
This bubble may be of any size; but its situation (if 
it be present at all) is always the same, and its shape 
is always such as to give the Maraldi angles at its own 
four corners. The tension of its own walls, and those 
of the films by which it is supported or slung, all bal- 
ance one another. Hence the bubble appears in plane 
Projection as a curvilinear equilaterai triangle; and we 
have only got to convert this plane diagram into the 
corresponding solid to obtain the spherical tetra- 
hedron we have been seeking to explain. 
The geometry of the little inner tetrahedron is not less simple 
and elegant. 
Its six edges and four faces are all equal. The films 
attaching it to the outer skeleton are all planes. Its faces are spherical, 
(a) 
(b) 
Fig. 63. Diagrammatic construction of Callimitra. 
(a) A bubble suspended withir 
a tetrahedral cage; (6) another bubble within a skeleton of the former bubble. 
and each has its centre in the opposite corner. The edges are circular 
arcs, with cosine 4; each is in a plane perpendicular to the chord of 
the arc opposite, and each has its centre in the middle of that chord. 
Along each edge the two intersecting spheres meet each other at an 
angle of 120°. 
Fig. +51. Pseudopriacanthus altus. 
The engineer, who had been busy de- 
signing a new and powerful crane, saw in 
a moment that the arrangement of the 
bony trabeculae was nothing more nor 
less than a diagram of the lines of stress, 
or directions of tension and compression, 
im the loaded structure; in short, that Na- 
ture was strengthening the bone in pre- 
cisely the manner and direction in which 
strength was required; and he is said to 
have cried out, ‘’That’s my crane!” 
Ciig. 
LOR 
y XS 
Mae 
KD 
il, 
Se 
ra 
oe, 
rr 
Ny 
ZF oe 
~ 
ey 
“ 
Purposive Systems 
Youre a purposive system. Soam |. We're very good at it, 
and not as good as we‘d like to be. Humanity, as a whole, is 
lousy at it, and worried. 
This collection of recent cybernetic 
thoughts can cheer you up and give you better concepts to 
worry. with. 
Purposive Systems 
SB 
Ed.: 
Heinz von Foerster, J. D. White, 
L. J. Peterson, J. K. Russell 
1968; 179 pp.' from 
Spartan Books 
432 Park Avenue South 
$10.00 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
We have not yet built into our educational system any recognition of 
the points where precision is essential, and. yet we are living in a society 
where one mistake can dislocate the lives of thousands of people, 
wreck distribution systems, and distort life-history data, and subsequent 
career lines. 
e 
There is no basic reason why one cannot design a contro! memory 
with a different technology, a technology which would allow the 
computer itself to alter the information stored in the control memory. 
Thus we would have a computer that could alter its own character as 
required, To my knowledge very little conceptual work has been done 
in thinking through the implications of this extremely powerful possi- 
bility. The possibilities are so staggering and deep. The poor harried 
souls responsible for trying to understand the classical computer as we 
now know it wish this idea would go away. 
e 
The act of choosing a representation for a problem involves the speci- 
fication of a space where the search for solution can take place. Such 
a specification involves the choice of a language—and its use—for 
expressing problem conditions, properties of solutions, and 
knowledge of regularities in the search space. 
If we detach the concern of survival from computers, as is gererally 
the case, they can learn abilities more useful to man than the struggle 
for existence. 
A friend of mine once gave what | regard as a nice shorthand formula. 
When in. a dilemma,introduce novelty. 
Exaggerated politeness is a powerful source of misunderstanding. 
o 
Regularity seeking activities that seem to be generally useful include 
the detection of symmetries, the identification of ‘critical points’ 
(key points through which the search «just go to get a solution), and 
the recognition of redundant information in problem descriptions. 
Aspects of Form 
This is a well-used collection of insights by venerable 
initiates of form study. 
—SB 
Aspects of Form 
Lancelot Law Whyte, ed. 
1951; 249 pp. 
$1.95 postpaid from 
Indiana University Press 
10th and Morton Streets 
Bloomington, Ind. 47401 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Form 
Whole Systems 
Fig. 2 Copperhead Snake——illustrating the effectiveness of disrup- 
tive contrast in relation to background configuration 
A man may learn by experience to associate two series of events 
between which any connection seemed at first wildly improbable. For 
such associations to be possible, provision must be made for every 
signal entering the nervous system to be relayed to every part, not 
merely to the specialised receiving zone. Thus from the knot of an 
event is generated a web of speculation; when two series of events are 
perceived together they form the warp and woof of a shimmering 
fabric into which is woven the pattern of the probability that the two 
events are significantly related. 
e 
An ‘image’ in this biological sense, then, is not an imitation of an ob- 
ject’s external form but an imitation of certain privileged or relevant 
aspects. 
It is here that a wide field of investigation would seem to open. 
e 
We know that there are certain privileged motifs in our world to which 
we respond almost too easily. The human face may be outstanding 
among them. Whether by instinct or by very early training, we 
certainly are ever disposed to single out the expressive features of a 
face from the chaos of sensations that surrounds it and to respond to 
its slightest variations with fear or joy. 
