4 
S 
pent 
oN 
es} 
yi ab 5 
\h. We have here the John Muir of bicycles. Complete 
sheerful information on bike use and maintenance. Good 
advice, reasonable price; that’s nice. 
SB 
[Suggested by Karen Herold] 
Anybody’s Bike Book 
Tom Cuthbertson 
1971; many pages (I’m looking at galleys) 
$3. 00 postpaid 
from: 
Ten Speed Press 
2510 Bancroft Way 
Berkeley, CA 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
‘The Complete Book of Bicycling 
nN 
_ This book, which contains almost everything you want or need to 
know about bicycling, was written by a man who rides his own 
10-speed lightweight 30 miles a day in Chicago commuting between 
home and job. He deals knowledgeably with cycling and health, 
cycling safety, choosing a bicycle, cycle touring and camping, 
racing, history of bicycling, accessories, and maintenance. 
His advice on choosing a bicycle is quite similar to that given in the 
cycle Page of the Whole Earth Catalog, although much more ex- 
ensive. Basically it amounts to this: the most satisfactory bicycle 
_ for the serious cyclist is the precision lightweight with derailleur- 
shifted gears. Such bikes cost about.$200 or more, and the only 
_ smart place to buy one is at a reputable shop that can set it up 
properly when it is new and provide good service and maintenance 
_ for it as it ages. 
The book has a wealth of technical detail and many good illus- 
_ trations. Of special interest are the sections on choosing a bicycle 
and maintaining it. The former includes a thorough discussion on 
_ selecting suitable gear ratios. 
This important matter, unhappily, is 
Biron neglected by the inexperienced cyclist. Thus he may find— 
Uiness he is athletic and in top physical condition— that his expensive 
new lightweight has gear ratios better suited to road racing than to 
_ more casual touring. 
The book explains how to avoid this problem 
by ordering wider range gears. 
In the section on maintenance are included detailed instructions and 
enough illustrations to enable the reader to do most of his own up- 
keep and repairs if he wants to. With this book anda few tools one 
could keep a bike running indefinitely at very small cost. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Wallace Clements] 
The Complete Book of Bicycling 
_ Eugene A. 
Sloan 
1970; 342 pp. 
~ $9.95 postpaid 
rom: 
rident Press 
c/o Simon & Schuster 
1 W.z 39th St. 
_ New York, N.Y. 10018 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
_ Before you buy your good machine, count the number of teeth on 
_ each of the gears on the rear derailleur. For example, the freewheel 
__ gears on the usual fine machine will start with 23 teeth on the 
~ large gear and work down in two-tooth jumps to 15 teeth on the 
small gear, so that you will have gears of 23, 21,19, 17, and 15 
teeth. This isa close ratio freewheel that | do not recommend for 
_ the average cyclist for cross-country tours, or for riding about in 
_ hilly country, because there is not enough variation in gear selec- 
tions. You can have your bicycle dealer install a set of gears with a 
wider range. 
| recommend a rear freewheel gear cluster with these 
_ 
teeth 28, 24, 20, 17, and 14, with double chainwheel of 40 and 
— 60 teeth. 
us 
- i 
“? 
_ About horns. A mechanical horn, such as a squeeze-bulb type, takes 
me too much room for the noise it makes. Tinkle bells are about all 
you need if you do a lot of sidewalk riding. 
If you really want noise, 
_ try a Freon-powered boat horn, which can be heard for ten blocks. 
When they were new on the market, | bought one and put it ina 
bottle carrier on my handlebar, where | could get at it quickly. 
It 
sounded rather like a diesel freight train coming down the highway. 
The first time | used it, | was between a squad car and the curb, and 
it caused the squad car to leap forward with dome light flashing. 
he second time, | tried it on a woman driver coming at me from an 
ntersection. She came to a satisfying, screaming stop. The third 
time, | blew it at a driver who opened a car door in front of me, 
and it frightened him into closing the door rather quickly. By the 
time he did | was long past him. But since | find my lung power about 
as good a horn as | need, | discarded the Freon horn and its pound of 
gas. In general, it’s far better to be alert at all times to what's happen- 
ing around you and be prepared to take evasive action than it is to 
count on a horn to get you out of trouble. 
In my opinion, any horn 
is just dead weight. 
Never pedal on your arch. For maximum efficiency, use ball of 
foot. Then ankle correctly to get maximum pedaling action, as shown 
here. Correct ankling technique involves ankle positions with toe 
pointing slightly upward at top of stroke to push pedal forward and 
down; downward at bottom of stroke to force pedal back and up. 
e 
Tire Pumps 
A pump that can be seat-tube mounted is a ‘’must”’ if you tour or 
take trips very far from home. After having used a number of pumps, 
| find the Silca or the Campagnola plastic pump the best and easiest 
to use. These Pumps can be obtained with either a Presta head for 
ubular tire valves, or Schrader for American tube valves. They cost 
bout $4.00 and are well worth it. Other pumps | have tried soon 
ll apart or became dented and were therefore useless. 
ipa 
. \E HANGER 
Q\ (DERE R) 
385 
$100 
$125 
$155 
$180 
$240 
everything in its path. 
It’s that way everywhere around here. 
ail 
Al 
Some folks call it the end of time but me, | just call it a bunch of 
Bagis 
Lighter 
ingroges 
iapacvee 
anaes 
goddamn criminals out tearing up the world. 
MAA 
Higdeereenice 
auesee 
? 
barns 
eran 
Bicycles 
overall 
CEEESURY 
Nomadics 
(GOOSENECK 
eres 
i 
for. 
\& a eal CA 
Dak joey, 
If you are going to ride over plowed fields, or on sand flats at lo’ 
tide, or if you plan to take only short rides to the corner store, get 
ee 
a sturdy coaster-brake model, a balloon-tire bomber. $10-$50.00. 
SHEAD TUGE 
{f you plan leisurely shopping jaunts, weekend excursions up to 30 
. 
miles, or commuting for short distances, all on reasonably even 
an 
<> 
terrain, get a 3 speed. 
If you like a comfortable ride and maneuvera- 
: 
bility, you might try one of the newly introduced small-wheeled 
bikes. $50—$80. 
If you plan to cover long distances over varied terrain, and if you are 
willing to accommodate yourself to a specialized riding position for 
the sake of vast improvement in cycling speed and responsiveness, 
get a 10 speed. $80-$300. 
TOP Teey 
men! 
Quick 
RELEASE 
e 
10. Find a bike shop that cares. They will get you hard-to-find 
parts, give you advice, and help you when this book can’t. There 
are bike shops that care. They aren’t necessarily the big and flashy 
ones— remember, it’s the people that count. When you find a good 
shop, do all your business there. Tell people who want new bikes to 
* 
shop there. 
It’s the least you can do in exchange for the small-parts 
’ 
hunting that a good shop will do for you. 
11. Cultivate a fine ear so you can hear any little complaint your bike 
makes, like grindy bearings, or kerchunking chain, or a slight clunk- 
ing of a loose crank. You don’t have to talk to your bike when you 
ride it— just learn to listen to it affectionately and sensitively. 
12. Keep all bearings adjusted properly. Your bicycle has between 
150 and 200 ball bearings. To keep them all rolling smoothly, you 
have to learn to adjust the cups and cones in which they run. Ad- 
justment involves screwing the cone and cup together until they are 
snug on the ball bearings, then unscrewing the cup and cone slightly. 
The bearing should revolve smoothly, without any “‘play”’ or 
looseness between the cup and cone. 
If your brake stickies are in the lever itself, you have either an un- 
lubricated unit, a bent lever, a bent lever axle, or a misshapen post. 
Try a little dab of light oil on the lever axle; that’s the easiest thing. 
No luck? The most common problem is a bent lever. 
Is the lever 
out of line? 
If it is, try straightening it with your bare hands, hold- 
ing the post in one hand and bending the lever with the other. 
If 
that doesn’t help, you can try using various metal-eating tools, such 
as the vise-grip. 
How To Improve Your Cycling 
If you’re getting a kid a bike, you might get this little book 
too. 
—SB 
- 
\ 
How to Improve Your Cycling 2 
! 
$0.75 postpaid 
from: 
The Athletic Institute 
Merchandise Mart, Rm. 805 
Chicago, IIlinois 60654 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Fig, 36: Never pedal on your arch, For maximum efficiency, use ball of foot. Then ankle 
correctly to get maximum pedaling action, as shown here. Correct ankling technique 
involves ankle positions with toe pointing slightly upward at top of stroke to push pedal 
forward and down; downward at bottom of stroke to force pedal back and up. 
These publications are all nearly essential if you plan on checking 
é 
out all available avenues before buying a ten-speed tourer. 
Most of the suppliers/sources here were suggested by Sage, 
of Turin Bicycle Co-op. 
Derailleur Lightweights— New Dimension in Cycling 
available from 
Bicycling! (monthly magazine) 
Schwinn Bicycle Company 
H.M. Leete & Co. 
1856 North Kostner 
256 Sutter Street 
Chicago, IIlinois 60639 
San Francisco, CA 94108 
League of 
American Wheelman Bulletin 
LA.W. 
5118 Foster Avenue 
Chicago, IIlinois 60630 
Stuyvesant Distributors 
404 East 11th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10009 
(75¢ for catalog) 
Turin Bicycle Co-op 
2112 North Clark Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60614 
Thomas Avenia (east) 
131 East 119th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10035 
Thomas Avenia (west) 
10205 Rio Hondo Parkway 
Pleasant Valley Shop 
P.O. Box 293 
Livingston, N.J. 07039 
(Mail order specialist for Clement 
cycles) 
Hans Ohrt Lightweight Bikes 
9544 Santa Monica Boulevard 
Beverly Hills, CA 90210 
Velo-Sport Cyclery 
1650 Grove Street 
Berkeley, CA 
— 
ee x1 
os 
ees 
Virgil leaned his head out the window to spit again. This time 
El Monte, CA 
So aa 
evade Center 
he let go of his whole plug. He hawked and spat and dredged a 
Whee! Goods 
mouthful of phlegm out of his throat and when he'd let that go 
West Carrolton, 
Ohi 
2737 Hennepin Ave. 
Heo thee 
Minneapolis, Minnesotta 55408 
Cyclo-Pedia 
6447 Michigan Avenue 
Detroit, Michigan 48210 
($1.00 for 60 page 
“handbook & catalog’) 
too he cleared his throat and continued. 
“And so what comes next but the strip mining. 
| mean we 
had some of it right along, but after that woman come in here 
and made her speech, seemed like it just broke out all over. 
Whole mountain ranges chewed up and spit right out in the river. 
They've done destroyed your county, Collier. 
Finley County’s 
bad hit, you won't recognize that place. They say they’s a strip 
mine bench through the Rockhouse drainage over eighty miles 
long, and getting longer ever day. What's worse it’s a coming 
right my way. Man have a house and a barn, some pasture in 
the valley, they come right over it, the law says that’s just fine. 
Law says a operator got a deed to the mineral, it don’t matter 
what he does or who he does it to, it’s legal to take that mineral 
out any way he wants to. They gouged a woman’s baby right out 
of the grave over in Knott County, and her a looking. Said her 
husband had already been took to jail for brandishing a rifle at 
a bulldozer operator. Then they gouged up their baby right out 
of the grave, flung it end over end into the sky, the mother a 
looking. My wife’s people got sixty acres on Lower Elk. Lived 
there thirty years. Got cows, good garden and a spring, man can 
live good there if he’s willing to work. But they’s this outfit owns 
the coal rights underneath, and they’re on their way to get it. 
Eighty. miles long, that bench is. Reminds me of a big serpent 
sneaking through the hills, big old eight miles long snake killing 
Cupertino Bike Shop 
10080 Randy Lane 
Cupertino, CA 95014 
PRICES RAG, 
(high quality-well worth price) 
Precisicn Machines 
(january 1970; compiled by Turin Bicycle 
Co-op staff with Sace 
