Unc stareing iner ri 
ueaomoayamounes iis Dus, 
Feverish last minute preparations aboard Further. 
THE GREAT BUS & ACE 
Everyone will go one trial run around the course: 
% mile up 
Further approaches the flag from the left. The Kitchen Bus 
Winning Time 2:32. Who Won Is Debated. 
the meadow, around the flag, and back downhill to the starting with Romney on top is coming around the other way. They 
line. Majestically the line of buses staggers up the course. 
“‘I 
intersect, pass narrowly, and ram into opposite hillsides, 
; 
; 
don’t know about this,”” says Mike Hagen, ‘Further ain’t got 
then rev and back blindly toward each other. 
Frantic 
Aspen Meadows, New Maxice.” Summer Solstice 1969 
much brakes.’ The Hospital Bus is ratte half-way up the 
shouting gets them forward.again. 
For a moment the entire 
Hugh Romney, who mustered this 1000 in this mountain 
hill right where it’s almost impossible to get around. 
solstice is tied in a sweet mad knot at the top of the pasture. 
pasture, is announcing the start of the Bus Race and that a 
Reportedly it also ran over a pup tent (unoccupied). 
couple named John and Mary are somewhere around and 
Bucavich gets Further around. The Kitchen Bus is still hung 
must be found because they have the bubonic plague and 
The survivors of the trial run line up. They‘re immense, 
with a rear bumper gouged in the creek bed. Rocket, who’s 
require innoculation immediately. Everybody’s pretty 
these faded colorful wrecks filled with folly. People are 
driving, surges again and gets it free. The buses swarm down- 
innoculated already; it’s the spaciest part of the afternoon. 
climbing off, others are climbing on. 
It’s atest of passengers —_ hill. Hugh Romney’s mouth is wide open, his toothless 
The race was going to be one bus at a time against the clock, 
as much as drivers. The mood is pure: fatalistic optimism. 
warning wailing down the pasture, ‘““BEEE CARRREFUULLLL.” 
but Ken Kesey and others are maintaining that’s a chickenshit 
At the finish line a thousand longhairs cheer and dodge. 
race. 
It’s got to be all at once. 
And it’s begun. Road Hog gets off first. Further is dragging. 
The air is filled with buses and exhaust and din. They wallow 
Afterward, at the award-giving argument, Romney is saying, 
The buses are Kesey’s 
renowned Further, with a skeleton 
up the pasture like berserk pigs. As Further sways past the 
“A miracle. 
It’s a pure miracle nobody was killed.” 
Kesey 
crew of Farmsters aboard, and the Hog Farm’s fleet: Road 
grounded Hospital Bus Kesey disappears over the windshield 
is saying, ‘Two minutes thirty-two seconds. 
It’s something 
Hog, Hospital Bus, Kitchen Bus, etc. The Motherfuckers’ 
shouting orders to driver Bucavich. Over there in the bushes 
to think about for next year.” 
tight little bus is around but not in the race. 
the Foot Swami from India is watching it all go by. 
Further ain’t got much brakes. 
Barrelling toward the first turn Kesey has an excellent view of the rear of the Hog Farm 
fleet. 
The Great Bus Race May Never End 
In the pursuit of truth via participatory journalism our 
reporter at the Great Bus Race drank fluid from a Donald 
Duck glass. Consequently he was too stoned to function and 
misrepresented some facts, such as: 
Tied up at the flag, Romney and Further pass in opposite directions. 
Fierce bus action 
is visible on the track below. 
The Great Bus Race 
* The Kitchen Bus is really the Just Bus 
* 
* 
. 
The Hospital Bus is really the Us Bus 
c. 500 yards up the mountain, the same distance down, around 
*Th 
4 
(Just Us Buses) any 
7 
a red flag marker and down past the swami’s gathering place where 
e other bus besides Road Hog is The Queen’s Midtown 
Tun- 
they all sit and chant OM. 
nel of Love Bus, and was the one which broke down. 
* Rocket wasn’t driving the Just Bus, Bob Redhat (narcoleptic 
from Ann Arbor) was. 
*Bucovich isn’t spelled Bucovich, it’s spelled some other way. 
They’re off we get a terrible start, next to last, 5 buses up the 
hill--Bucko at the wheel picks up steam, passes them all except 
the Road Hog—bouncing, bumping—we're scared as hell on 
top— the kids all love it— we lose our bell to the Road Hog— 
Romney had lost his notes and was starting to make up facts Get the Weather Vain from Just Bus. 2:29 the official record 
and the reporter sensed that once again truth was drifting. 
time. 
Here are some other accounts. Perhaps they converge. 
Paul Sawyer 
A few months tater Hugh Romney became his own 
And in Aspen Meadow above Santa Fe the Great Bus Further 
sequel, Wavy Gravy, who was last seen bussing out 
lost her silver bell to the Great Bus Road Hog in the First An- 
Obviously truth is not to be found in the past, nor 
of East Pakistan just ahead of a civil war. 
nual Summer Solstice Great Bus Race. 
likely in the future, next summer, when the buses 
—w 
en esky 
race from Stonehenge to the Pyramids, maybe. 
Great Bus Race >} 4 E 
Tru 
ile 
it |. 
I 
“5 
9 Aug 69 ROLLING STONE 
ee ieee pana wate 
te aero 
—SB 
Vomadies 
eD 
