ir 
life,” 
a Navaho told me once. This ai 
the man-water relationship is played—_ 
iques, theory, flow in pipes and channels, 
umps, turbines, wells hydrology. A neat package. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
Ficure6S. Air lift pump 
in deep water generally travel in groups or trains, separated 
itches of comparatively calm water, rather than in a continuous 
ries. A peculiar feature of the travelling groups is the successive 
jisappearance of the leading waves and the corresponding appear- 
e of fresh waves at the rear of the train. This results in the 
up advancing with a velocity that is only half the velocity of 
its way through the group to the front and then disappears. 
aps there is some human analogy in this birth of a wave, its 
Aermotor Information 
ter sand, 
free 
e brew in the water tanks. 
from: 
-jd 
Broken Arrow, Oklahoma 74012 
AERMOTOR 
PUMPING 
CAPACITY 
Total Elevation in Feet 
0 
MOTOF 
[a2re] 
a4 
re] 16 
Fe] 
420 
1,000 
600 
560 
inches) | 6 Ft] 6:16 
F:| 
150 
inding water is serious business. So is dowsing. 
This is 
e only how-to book I’ve ever seen. 
If you have a talent 
or this, how would you know but by trying? 
—SB 
‘ ‘Dow ing——An Introduction to An Ancient Practice 
_ Gordon 
MacLean, Sr. 
1970; 27 pp. 
. 
P, 
a 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
_ Gordon MacLean, Sr. 
; 
Day Street 
uth Portland, Maine 04106 
This pamphlet represents the experience of many experienced 
_ dowsers which they willingly share with others at the conventions 
_ of the American Society of Dowsers, Inc., held at Danville, Vermont 
the first weekend of October of each year. 
; ‘These experiences have been collected by Gordon MacLean, Sr., 
a 
Chemical Engineer, 
a member of the American Chemical Society, 
‘the American Institute of Chemical Engineers and is a Fellow of 
_ 
the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
president of the American Society of Dowsers, Inc. for 1968 
id 1969 he was in a favorable position to make this collection. 
Asa Trustee of the Society he continues his interest in this 
scinating field which he hopes you will share with him. 
ddress any correspondence to him at 
30 Day Street 
South Portland, Maine 04106. 
FiGuRe 39. Water-supply pipeline. Practically all of the difference, A, in 
level between A and B represents energy expended by the water in over- 
coming pipe-flow resistance. 
3) 
Water in the Service of Man 
H. R. Valentine 
1967; 221 pp. 
$1 .45 postpaid 
from: 
Penguin Books 
3300 Clipper Mill Road 
Baltimore, Md. 21211 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Dempster Windmills and Pumps 
Information from: 
Dempster Industries Inc. 
P.O. Box 848 
Beatrice, Nebraska 68310 
An outfit that uses an electronic divining device with a 
pretty good record is Accurate Water Location. 
You can 
get a franchise from them if you want to go into business, 
or you can get the address of their man nearest you. Fee 
for water search is $200 plus his travel. 
—SB 
Accurate Water Location Inc. 
Route 376 
Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 12603 
Information 
free 
from: 
The Heller-Aller Company 
Corner Perry and Oakwood 
Napoleon, Ohio 43545 
The company was organized by John Aller and Frederick Baker. 
Sam Heller, a dry goods merchant, joined the company in 1904. 
The company’s mills still bear the trademarked name ‘‘Baker’’ on 
their fan blades. 
The development of gasoline and electric water pumps shrank the 
market and the competition after the 1920's, Mr. Selhorst said. 
Where there were once almost 20 concerns making windmills, now 
there are only two others competing with his, the Braden Aero- 
motor Corporation of Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, and the Dempster 
Mill Manufacturing Company of Beatrice, Nebraska. Before the 
decline the Heller-Aller Company was selling 4,000 windmills a 
year. 
Despite the efficiency and speed of new water pumps, windmills 
still serve a useful function, particularly on large ranches where 
| 
distances prohibit the continual service and refueling that gasoline 
and electric pumps need. 
All a windmill needs, Mr. Selhorst said, is wind and about a half- 
gallon of lubricating oil a year. The mills, which last 20 to 40 
years, cost from $200 to $400, plus $200 to $1,000 for a tower, 
and require no money for operation. 
New York Times 
APPROX. 
SHIPPING 
BSSSSBSSSRBSRBRSSRSSRSSRSRBRRRRSRERBRERSRERSSRBRBBBeas 
Swimming Pools as Reservoirs 
Water being a basic necessity for life, especially in the country where 
it doesn’t just run out of faucets, we'd like to pass along an idea for 
water storage, that we have been using for over a year. A swimming 
pool——the kind you assemble yourself with aluminum frame and 
plastic liner——makes a totally adequate storage tank. 
When we were planning our water system, we investigated the 
various ways of storing water, ranging from homemade cement 
tanks (tricky to build so they don’t crack) to expensivg redwood 
tanks (approximately $600 for 5000 gallons and you have to keep 
them full or the wood gets screwed up & leaks). Finally, and 
luckily, we hit upon the idea of a swimming pool. We got ours 
(15 ft. diameter, 5500 gallons) during a Monkey Wards Spring 
Catalog Sale for about §160——a real buy, but even at regular prices 
(up to $200) this beats the redwood tanks by quite a bit, and it’s 
easier to install than a cement tank. Sears and Western Auto also 
carry similar models. 
We installed ours on a hillside above our house (after leveling and 
shoring up a 15 ft. area), and we siphon the water to our house and 
garden using good old gravity (the tank is high enough above us so 
we have adequate pressure). 
The plastic liner (very good heavy 
duty) imports no taste to the water, and can be replaced 
for about 
$40. The plastic cover you can buy to go with the pool (about 
$12) is worthless, so we bought heavy black plastic, draped it over 
acone-shaped frame we built of 2x4’s (to keep the plastic from 
hanging down in the water——it’s heavy!), and secured it around 
the circumference with the nylon rope that came with the original 
cover. 
If you’re going to use a siphon, curve the pipe (we used a length of 
copper pipe connected to our regular plastic pipe) up off the 
bottom of the tank 6-10” and cover the opening with screen to 
keep out the silt (which settles to the bottom), bugs, & frogs. 
If you install this tank ona 
hillside, try to find a spot that has a 
couple of big trees or a large stump on the downhill side (our tank 
butts up against an old burned-out redwood), so that if the earth 
shifts the whole pool won't slide downhill——an unlikely 
occurrence, but you'll sleep better! 
Upkeep is minimal 
We emptied ours completely after a year to 
clean the liner, and found that it really wasn’t necessary (the 
plastic looks grungy, but isn’t really dirty). We “fill” ours about 
once a month (more often in the summer)——we don’t let it get 
completely empty or the siphon wouldn’t work. It costs us less 
than $2 per month in electricity to pump water uphill from our 
spring (if you’re smart you'll put your spring above your tank—— 
but we didn’t have a choice). 
pales eae 
ike 
Hope this suggestion will solve someone’s water-storage problem 
as well as it solved ours. 
Will be glad to answer any questions we 
can. 
Ron & Liz Peck 
Star Route Box 83 
Myers Flat, CA 95554 . 
~ 
7 
« 
