The Japanese House 
Without getting all sentimental and exetic 
we're still going to agree that Japanese make 
better houses than anybody else (they also 
have the fastest growing economy in the world, 
but that’s another story — or is it?). If you’re 
going to build your own house and don’t mind 
some inspiration on the subject, this book was 
laboriously made for you. It’s a great big 
Christmas present of a book full of yummy 
photos and diagrams and details of technique, 
all of which seems right within reach: I-can- 
do-it. Nice cure for nothing-car-be-done-be- 
cause-it’s-too-damned-big industrial blues. 
[Suggested by Zen Mountain Center] 
$27.50 may choke you up, in which case get 
Japanese Homes and Their Surroundings, $2.50 
from Dover Publications—straight information on 
how to hand-make a lovable environment. 
ShGii paper is the ‘glass’ of the Japanese house. 
Its qualities, however, are of a different nature, and, 
thus, also are its effects. The light, broken already 
by the broad overhang of the eaves, is diffused by 
the paper and creates a characteristic light condition 
basically even if the evening or winter sun hits the 
IETS 
Paper directly. No glare, no shadows; a general gloom 
creates a soft, emotional atmosppere. With artificial 
light in use,,the shdii paper shows its reflective-dif- 
fusing ability, and at night with lights turned out, 
Scorn: 
might even offer an interesting shadow play the moon 
teLUE 
has staged with the old weather-worn pine tree. As 
time passes, the paper darkens. Here and there, a torn 
Piece is carefully cut out and replaced by new, lighter 
Paper. The paper pattern becomes, though irregular, 
more interesting and lively. The paper ages, as does 
man. 
Shelter and Society 
Almost all the books you ever see on architecture are 
concerned with monumental building, a result of the 
relationship between architects and wealthy patrons. 
Seldom do you see anything on buildings by the people, 
of local materials and in simple harmony with the 
surrounding landscape. 
Here’s an exception. On the cover is what at first glance 
appears to be a primitive Portuguese fisherman’s house. 
On closer inpsection, it’s a picture of one of Drop City’s 
domes, colorful, funky, having sprung from the trash of 
“_..a wasteful society.” 
10 types of dwellings are covered, by different writers. A 
comparison of the pueblo and the hogan, the walled city 
of Old Delhi, the Norwegian Laftehaus, Villages on the 
Black Volta, and a fine article by Bill Voyd on funk 
architecture at Drop City. Many of the photographs 
are too dark, but you won't find them elsewhere. 
It’s more of a book on the functions of the buildings 
than on the external amie te 
Lloyd Kaho 
“All is as it should be’’, says one of the beings. 
“Nothing is complete,”’ returns the other; “look at those 
creatures below this mountain, whom we see assembling, then 
disbursing, looking about, and betaking themselves to shelter.” 
From the Prologue to The Habitations of Man in All Ages 
by Viollet-le-Duc, translated by Benjamin Bucknall, 
Architect. 
1876. 
Japanese House 
Shelter 
The Japanese House— 
A Tradition for 
comparable to twilight. This situation does not change vec a Architecture 
1964; 495 pp. 
$27.50 postpaid 
Charles E. Tuttle Co., Inc. 
Rutland, Vermont 05701 
SECLUSION IN BUILDING is an essential instrument 
for establishing, or preserving, the freedom of man. 
For, only in solitude can man escape from the coer- 
cion to which he:is subjected when among the masses. 
details 
scale 1710 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Shelter and Society 
Paul Oliver, ed. 
1969; 167 pp. 
$ 10.00 postpaid 
from: 
Frederick A. Praeger, Publisher 
111 Fourth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
diner sioning Of 
root post 'koyseuka’ according "kiwayi" module = 
width = cadtn = Os x colar sex 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
$7.36 from Blackwell's (see p.2) 
3 = i Tey-lal-) 
Fig. 167,— Kirenes iy ony Farmuovse at Kanetoyama 
Japanese Homes & Their Surroundings 
Edward S. Morse 
1886, 1961; 372 pp. 
$3.00 postpaid 
from 
Dover Publications, Inc, 
180 Varick St. 
New York, N. Y. 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
To the Egyptians, shelter for the dead was more important than 
shelter for the living; our factories, he argued, suggest that shelter 
for machines is better served today than that for men or gods: 
“Shelter seems, indeed, to have been a minor consideration in 
many of the early cultures.”” 
For the very congruity and harmony which is so frequently a 
source of admiration and comment in architectural writings on 
vernacular shelter is evidence of the integration of the building 
in the life of the community as a whole, 
The close link between dwelling and land expressed in the resem- 
blance of the pueblo to a land-form seems to reflect the overall 
harmony of man and nature. The house is sacred, and so is the 
whole landscape and everything in it. Corn was more than a food, 
it was a symbol of life, and corn growing was regarded as a religious 
activity. Among the Tewa, for example, the greater part ot religion 
centres around corn and, by extension, around agriculture in general. 
This attitude must influence the form of the pueblo and particularly 
its siting and relationship to the land; it helps to explain why the 
pueblo seems such an inevitable part of its surroundings. 
Sun movements and solstices are extremely important, being related 
to ceremonial cycles. The pueblo is carefully orientated: 
it is 
related both to mountains (‘Life comes from the mountains”) and 
to the six cardinal points and the sacred directions of East and North. 
