The Stress of Life 
It has been 
that this book be reviewed with the thought in 
ming of its being included in the WEC. Now before going into the 
criteria for that , it should be stated that the entertainment value, or 
readability of this book is high. Further note that according to a 
quoted review the book “. . .is very readable. ...” You will 
experience ™. . .Dr. Selye’s persuasive enthusiasm.” Yet another (not 
quoted in the book) says it can be read “. . .with considerable 
pleasure.“ And thus spake (also sprach) the Library Journal: 
“. . orchids upon this. . .incomparable exposition. 
. . .”” 
dn the reading— this applies chiefly to the first 4/5ths of the volume— 
@ word of advice is picked up from a review quoted in the book 
itself and credited to the American Journal of Public Health. 
The 
book, happily, does not contain “. . .a mass of data of questionable 
relevance. ..“’ but the reader is cautioned to “. . .maintain balance 
amid Dr. Selye’s persuasive enthusiasm” These words gain weight 
when one is apprised that they were written for the reviewing journal 
by Ancel Keys, one of this country’s great physiologists. 
Now back to the WEC. The WEC states that the criteria for listing 
something in its pages shall be four in number, videlicet: 
1) useful 
as a-tool, 2) relevant to independent education, 3) high quality or 
low cost, and 4) available by mail. 
This book immediately meets 
criteria 3 and 4. 
Criterion 2 is a sort of double-barreled one that depends not only 
upon the nature of the book but also upon what the reader does 
with it. Dr. Selye epitomizes the relevance to independent 
education in his dedication: 
-“This book is dedicated to those who 
are not afraid to enjoy the stress of a full life, nor too naive to 
think that they can do so without intellectual effort.” So let us 
now say that criteria 2, 3, and 4 have now been met. 
in-order to determine if the book meets criterion number one as 
well, let us first quote the author, “I. . .recommend that only 
Physicians, or readers who are at least reasonably familiar with 
current problems of physiology and medicine, should read this 
book from cover to cover.”” He directs the rest of us cats to first 
read Book V (the volume is divided into Books !-V incl.) in small 
installments of. . .ten to twenty pages at a time. Now it turns out 
that Book V contains “. . .the practical implications and applications 
of the stress concept in everyday life. 
.. 
.“Hence, criterion number 
one is going to be met by the contents of Book V— a mere matter 
of 52 pages— or it is not going to be met at all. 
Let us now diverge a bit. “The main purpose of this book is to 
tell. 
. .what medicine has learned about stress.”’ It should be noted 
in passing that there is a glossary at book’s-end to help out on the 
technical terms. 
The main subject of the book is the G.A.S. 
(general adaptation syndrome) which comes to be called the stress 
syndrome; and conversely, the stress syndrome , / suppose, may be 
said to be a GAS. First, one should mention that a syndrome is 
merely a collection or constellation of related signs and symptoms 
which is characteristic of a disease or condition of malfunctioning. 
The G.A.S. is the sum-total of all non-specific changes that occur 
in the body during the time it is being acted upon by a stress- 
producing agent (stressor). 
These non-specific changes occur in 
three stages, 1) alarm, 2) resistance, and 3) exhaustion. Number 3 
eventuates, if it continues, in death. Most stresses are only severe 
enough to produce stages 1 and 2. Going through 1 and 2 repeatedly 
in one’s lifetime constitutes “adapting” to things. 
Various degrees 
of failure to adapt, Selye says, result in various disease or degenerative 
conditions. 
Aerobics 
On the horizon the tiny figure of Johnny Hero running, on and on 
under a stunning sun, closeup of his surging determined face, sweat 
running, Johnny running, training for the big match next week; the 
credits roll by. That’s Japanese television cartoons, every night. | 
was impressed. Our TV tends to show a guy 
ina 
chair eating 
something. Or ona table under muzzled doctors who are having an 
argument about surgical technique. 
—SB 
/t turns out that the index of physical fitness is not strength, stamina, 
or quickness (though these inevitably follow if you’re fit) but rather, 
the body’s ability to use oxygen. 
| am an ardent athlete and sports 
freak of all kinds and spent nine years as a competitive swimmer, so 
/ feel | 
can judge in these things. | also participated in the testing 
which resulted in the book (at Lackland AFB, Texas) while in the 
Air Force, so what is said is so. 
This tool can save a lot of time and 
energy to put you in top shape with about an hour’s work a week. 
No kidding. | do about 3-4 times that but you have to do the basic 
or you're shortchanging yourself, your future existence, and your 
loved ones. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Kenneth Sowers] 
The New Aerobics 
Kenneth H. Cooper, M.D. 
1970; 191 pp. 
$1 .25 postpaid 
from: 
Bantam Books, Inc. 
666 Fifth Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
by Renneth HeCooper MD. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
the entire family 
‘I 
The main objective of an aerobic exercise program is to increase 
the maximum amount of oxygen that the body can process 
within a given time. This is called your aerobic capacity. 
It is 
dependent upon an ability to 1) rapidly breathe large amounts of 
air, 2) forcefully deliver large volumes of blood and 3) effectively 
deliver oxygen to all parts of the body. In short, it depends upon 
efficient lungs, a powerful heart, and a good vascular system. 
Because it reflects the conditions of these vital organs, the aerobic 
capacity is the best index of overall physical fitness. 
212 Community 
Now to get back to the question of criterion number one— the use 
of the book as a tool. Up to page 258 it is not useful as such to the 
general reader. Selye says, “All we have said up to now helps to 
guide treatment on the part of a physician,” and “. . .even dietary 
treatment must be controlled by a competent physician. All this 
book can do in this respect is to help the patient understand why 
his physician prescribes a certain regimen; it could not presume to 
be an adequate preparation for self-treatment along such purely 
medical lines.” BUT, “. . .there are many things | have learned 
from the study of stress, which the ph ysician cannot use but the 
patient can. | particularly want to share these lessons with you....” 
OK, reader, you are now on your own, and you will indeed find 
out that criterion number one is met. 
[Reviewed by R. D. Chamberlain, M.D.] 
The Stress of Life 
Hans Selye, M.D. 
1956; 324 pp. 
The 
Stressof lie —— 
$2.75 postpaid 
SESE 
. 
| 
from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, N. J. 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Mo. 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, CA 94947 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Stress is essentially the rate of all the wear and tear caused by life. 
It will take a whole book to explain the complex mechanisms 
through which the body can reduce this type of wear and tear. But 
let me say here, by way of an introduction, that although we cannot 
avoid stress as long as we live, we can learn a great deal about how 
to keep its damaging side-effects to a minimum. 
For instance, we 
are just beginning to see that many common diseases are largely 
due to errors.in our adaptive response to stress, rather than to 
direct damage by germs, poisons, or other external agents. 
In this 
sense many nervous and emotional disturbances, high blood pres- 
sure, gastric and duodenal ulcers, certain types of rheumatic, 
allergic, cardiovascular, and renal diseases appear to be essentially 
diseases of adaptation. 
e 
The important difference between the discovery of America by the 
Indians, by the Norsemen, and by Columbus is that only Columbus 
succeeded in attaching the American continent to the rest of the 
world. 
It is not to see something first, but to establish solid connections 
between the previously known and the hitherto unknown that 
constitutes the essence of scientific discovery. 
Paracelsus (whose true, but somewhat bombastic, name was Theo- 
phrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim) was a famous Swiss physician 
who lived during the sixteenth century. 
In his treatise on ‘Diseases 
Which Deprive Man of his Reason,” he stated that ‘‘the best cure 
and one which rarely fails is to throw such persons into cold water.” 
Disease is not mere surrender to disease, but also fight for health; 
and unless there is fight there is no disease. 
The Israel Army Physical Fitness Book 
Everybody | know’s doing pushups. Kesey claims there’s 
another wave of creativity coming, and he’s doing pushups 
to get ready. Lloyd just finished editing his dome book, 
and he’s doing pushups to get his head and body back in 
phase. I’m doing pushups out of some grotesque nostalgia 
for the Army (U.S.). Low-rent yoga, that’s what it is. Sure 
enough, on a few square feet of prison cell or meditation 
hut, it can make you feel dedicated and well. 
—SB 
[Suggested by Whole Earth 
Access Company] 
Jesse Zel Lurie and Samuel Segev, Ed. 
1969; 127 pp. 
eis 
$1.00 postpaid 
from: 
Grosset & Dunlap, Inc. 
51 Madison Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10010 
THE AEROBICS CHART PACK 
RUNNING EXERCISE PROGRAM 
(under 30 years of age) 
STARTER * 
DISTANCE 
TIMB 
WEEK 
(miles) 
(min) 
FREQ/WK 
POINTS/WK 
1 
1.0 
13:30 
5 
10 
2 
1.0 
13:00 
5 
10 
3 
1.0 
12:45 
5 
10 
4 
1.0 
11:45 
5 
15 
5 
1.0 
11:00 
5 
15 
6 
1.0 
10:30 
5 
15 
After completing the above starter program, continue with the Category I 
conditioning program below or, if you wish to speed up your program, take 
the 12-minute test of fitness. If you take the test, find your category from 
the table at the beginning of the chart pack (page 52). If your category is 
I, II, or Ili, continue with the appropriate category below. If your category 
is IV or ¥V, follow the instructions in the note at the bottom of page 56, 
* Start the program by walking, then walk and run, or run, as necessary to 
meet the changing time goals. 
Fitness 
The Israel Army Physical Fitness Book 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
What is disease——not any one disease, just disease in general? This 
question lingered on in my mind, as it undoubtedly has in the minds 
of most physicians of all nations throughout history. But there was 
no hope of an early answer, for nature——the source of all know- 
ledge——rarely replies to questions unless they are put to her in the 
form of experiments to which she can say “‘ves’’ or “‘no.”’ She is 
not loquacious; she merely nods in the affirmative or in the 
negative. “What is disease?’' is not a question to which one can 
reply this way. 
Occasionally, if we ask, ‘What would you do if... ?"’ or, “What 
is in such and such a place?”’ she will silently show you a picture. 
But she never explains. You have to work things out yourself 
first, aided only by instinct and the feeble powers of the human 
brain, until you can ask precise questions, to which nature can 
answer in. her precise but silent sign language of nods and pictures. 
Understanding grows out of a mosaic of such answers. 
It is up 
to the scientist to draw a blueprint of the questions he has to ask 
before the mosaic makes sense. 
e 
Fortunately, it is not so much the existence of things that we do not 
know, or about which we are too uncertain, that handicaps our 
research, but the existence of things we do know and about whose 
interpretation we are quite certain——although they may turn out 
to be false. Lack of equipment, or even lack of knowledge, is much 
less of a handicap in original research than an overabundance of 
useless materials or useless (and sometimes false) information which 
clutters up our laboratories and our brains. 
The term adaptation energy has been coined for that which is 
consumed during continued adaptive work, to indicate that it is some- 
thing different from the caloric energy we receive from food; but 
this is only a name, and we still have mo precise concept of what 
this energy might be. Further research along these lines would 
seem to hold great promise, since here we appear to touch upon 
the fundamentals of aging. 
LEVEL OF NORMAL 
RESISTANCE 
AR. | 
S.R. 
S.E. 
In the acute phase of the alarm reaction (A.R.), general resistance, 
to the particular stressor with which the G.A.S, had been elicited, 
falls way below normal. Then, as adaptation is acquired, in the stage 
of resistance (S.R.), the capacity to resist rises considerably above 
normal, But eventually, in the stage of exhaustion (S.E.), resistance 
drops below normal again. 
Adaptability can be well trained to serve a special purpose, but 
eventually it runs out; its amount is finite. 
The fact is that a man can be intoxicated with his own stress 
hormones. | venture to say that this sort of drunkenness 
has caused much more harm to society than the other kind. 
. .. lt is not easy to tune down when you have reached your stress- 
quota. Many more people are the helpless slaves of their own 
Stressful activities than of alcohol. 
Besides, simple rest is no cure- 
all. Activity and rest must be judiciously balanced, and every 
person has his own characteristic requirements for rest and 
activity. To lie motionless in bed all day is no relaxation for an 
active man. 
Starting Position: Stand with feet apart, trunk bent forward, 
arms raised sideways. 
Movements: 
1) Bend your back and drop your head while 
crossing your arms downwards. 
2) Back to starting position, bringing arms up 
sideways. 
3—4) Rest in starting position. 
Explanation: 
\n the starting position, arms should be at the sides 
and pulled forward, in line with the head. Eyes front. When 
the arms are crossed downwards they should be fairly loose. 
Be careful to keep knees straight. 
[Army Field Manual FM 21-20, Physical 
Readiness Training, /s a /ot more compre- 
hensive. Order from the Government 
Printing Office. 
