ic i 
How to Invent 
Last month, when I visited you in Menlo Park you invited me to 
write about inventing, and what I would have liked to read that 
might have been helpful when I started inventing 15 years ago. 
__ I’m enclosing some material on my most recent work, a so-called 
“patent network” in which a direct relationship exists among four 
inventions. Each of the inventions is illustrative of a 
different kind 
of invention in the sense that each was arrived at in a different way: 
The SunBird kite was developed accidentally in an effort to work 
out a method of preventing kites from diving out of control (An 
example of trying to invent B and coming up with A. 
The compression tension kite that turned into a cabana is an example 
of simply recognizing that something that my hands had done was 
an invention. 
The stressed skin structure is an invention which I regard as inex- 
plicable insight (except that, in retrospect, it is the logical relative 
of a 
claim in my compression tension patent). 
The modular building system was a deliberate attempt at compro- 
mise; an effort to combine a multiplicity of stressed skin modules 
into a cohesive unity, but the selection of the octant as the basic 
module was intuitive. 
Most investigators of the “creative process” seem 
to agree that 
; 
invention is non-sense. 
. .a subconscious, alogical activity which is 
the unique output of the human random-a¢cess memory when 
triggered by appropriate stimuli. 
It’s nonsense when it happens, 
but after the fact it makes very good sense indeed. 
Since the memory is involved it follows that the broader and 
deeper the experiences recorded in the memory, the greater the 
arsenal which can be drawn upon by the subconscious for its 
synthesizing activity. A rather long-winded way of saying, “if 
you're going to invent, it’s a good idea to have a broad understanding 
of how the real world is put together; how things work; how things 
are made; and how the hands and their extensions, tools, make 
them.” 
The best inventor I know is Mother Nature. She holds most of the 
basic patents, (maybe all of them), so perhaps evolution is one way 
to get the job done. 
Another way is accident. I’ve heard it said that an average chim- 
panzee turned loose ona typewriter, would eventually turn out 
every word in the Bible, and I suppose that his cousin, turned 
loose in my workshop, would have eventually put together both 
the SunBird Kite and the Modular building. 
I just couldn’t wait. 
Time’s growing short. 
Don Gellert 
Kit is $6.00, and can be purchased from 
Don Gellert 
Box 245 
Trujillo Alto 
Puerto Rico 00760 
During the research which preceded final development of the Sun- 
Bird, the inventor explored the work of Alexander Graham Bell, 
(who was a pretty serious kite flyer himself), and developed a com- 
pression-tension modification of Mr. Bell’s tetrahedron kite. 
While the structure was not notably successful as a kite, a pair of 
Siamese cats took up residence in the prototype, and led the inven- 
tor to the development of a new modular housing system on which 
three patents have been issued during the last 18 months. 
Figure 3 shows the fabric tetrahedron as modified into a compression 
tension structure. 
A variation of this structure, using a curved spine and semi-rigid 
surfaces (instead of fabric surfaces) without the external com- 
pression members is shown in Figure 4. 
Figure 5, an interlocking dome system using the same module. 
A FULLY CONTROLLABLE TETHERED GLIDER 
If you hear talk about a kite that can: 
write your name in the sky; 
dive, loop, spin, hover on command; plunge into the water swim 
around and take off again; fly in formation; dance to music. 
. .and 
stuff like that the gadget that actually performs that way is a 
SunBird Aerobatic Kite. 
A two-part invention which was developed more or less by accident, 
the SunBird consists of a delta wing kite, with independently 
movable wings, and a control reel that handles each of the two 
control strings and allows them to be payed out or reeled in simul- 
taneously. 
Kite flying is a sport, and the SunBird is a piece of durable pre- 
cision engineered sports equipment. 
It takes skill to use it, and time 
to develop that skill but after a dozen flights or so, when you've 
mastered the control system it’s the nearest thing to a tree-eating 
kite there is. 
While the SunBird Kite included in the kit is considered to be the 
best controllable kite ever developed, the SunBird Control can be 
attached to almost any kite, and instructions for attachment to 
other kites are included together with full instructions for handling 
the Control System. 
These designs have been rendered in fabric, urethane-covered 
fabric, cardboard, aluminum and urethane covered aluminum, free- 
standing urethane, plywood panels, steel-lath-and-concrete. The 
largest span to date is 26 feet (fora single module and was fabricated 
as a free-standing urethane dome.) 
The advantages of the system lie in its power to develop, out of 
plane 
surfaces, extremely strong, thin shell structures with curved 
surfaces imply. 
Readers interested in experimenting with the structure are invited 
to correspond with the inventor. Background theory material and 
representative designs are being assembled for reproduction and will 
be available at $2.00 per copy together with a license to erect 
experimental structures. Commercial applications may be arranged 
on an individual basis. 
“Figure 1 
Se 
Figure 4 
Figure 5 
Figure 3 
Figure 2 
“As your body has settled into deep rest, your mind has been 
relaxing too, emptying itself until now it is cool and clear and 
free of all images except those | will suggest to you with my voice. 
Your mind is like a wall with absolutely nothing on it, no shape, 
no form, no color. 
It is empty and at rest, ready to receive the 
image of three boxes, three simple boxes sitting side by side in the 
middle of the empty space of your mind. The boxes are all the 
same size, and they are sitting in the same positions, with their 
fronts toward you, so that you can read the words written on 
the front of each box. Except for these words, the boxes are just 
alike, three neat boxes, very simple and clean of line, sitting next 
to each other in your mind. On the front of the box on the left 
is the word “Past.” The box on the right is labeled, ‘Future,’ 
and the box in the center is labeled ‘Present.’ 
Keep seeing all 
three boxes sitting there together, now, but pay particular attention 
to the box on the left, the ‘Past’ box. Think about that box a 
minute, and think about the word ‘past.’ And as you think about 
the word ‘past’ begin to put into the box all those things in your 
mind that you ordinarily associate with the word past. All your 
memories, all your recollections, all your backward longings. 
~ 
everything in your mind that has anything at all to do with the 
past put it into the box on the left, and when you have done this, 
close the lid. 
“Now you have closed the lid on the box marked ‘Past.’ 
Continue to see all three boxes in a row, but turn your attention 
now to the box on the right, in particular, the one marked ‘Future.’ 
Think about the word ‘Future,’ and as you think about it, begin 
to fill up the box on the right with all those elements in your mind 
that have anything at all to do with the future. All your ambitions, 
all your plans, every forward longing, every expectation, the very 
concept of the future, put in the box now, and when you have it 
all in, close the lid. The past and the future are now closed. You 
don’t have to think about either of them again. The three boxes 
are still there, side by side in your mind, but the only one you 
are interested in now is the one in the middle, marked ‘Present.’ 
Turn all of your attention to the box in the middle marked 
‘Present.’ Concentrate your entire mind on everything you can 
grasp that belongs to this particular present moment of your life. 
Everything that is, now, put in the box marked ‘Present,’ and 
watch, notice how the box in the middle is beginning to grow in 
size. You continue to put in it everything that you can possibly 
get hold of in this moment, this now, but as you do the box is 
growing, getting larger, it is swelling in length and heighth and 
breadth.. You continue to put in it all the elements of the here 
and now that you can get hold of, but as you find them and put 
them in, you discover more and more of the Present that should 
be included in the box. 
"And as the middle box grows, the other two boxes on either 
side get smaller and smaller in Proportion. They get smaller and 
smaller as the box in the middle gets larger and larger. And 
gradually the box in the middle begins to crowd the other two 
boxes out of your mental picture. Their place is being consumed 
by the box in the middle, which you continue to fill with every 
stray possibility out of the world of here and now. The two boxes 
on the sides are so small now you can barely see them. And now 
they are gone. 
“Now there is only the box in the middle, the ‘Present,’ box, 
still swelling, still growing, getting larger and larger with every 
breath you breathe. 
“And now the edges of even this box begin to disappear into 
the limits of your picture. 
It is beginning to lose its form, its 
identity as a box, it is turning into pure space now, pure light, and 
inside it is every aspect, every partical of now, of here, of this 
single, living breathing, on-going instant of your life.” 
Tips 
iideaen 13 
