on I feel moved to respond to your San 
nt who in the January issue asks for “‘any sort 
r kids that doesn’ t constitute total propaganda 
ene 
font s on “other kinds” of families (eg Reba Mirsky’ Se 
-O; oe and Sisters, Lois Lenski’s stories about Okies 
lactic quality which goes with that. There are some auto- 
diogr 
ies from other cultures which | rémember liking 
(Y ouel B. 
1za, Children of the Rooftops, Younghill Kang, The Happy. Grove, 
Sugimoto, A Daughter of the Samurai, Camara Laye, The. 
Dark 
ild, Wright's Black Boy) but none of the ones | think of are 
g children. I'd imagine that the main thing she wants and 
generally want:is something which encourages kids to be 
ind to grow into therkinds of grown-ups who can laugh and cry 
~ 
and 
wonder. Now having, as is customary, re-defined the question to 
suit the answer | have, | will make some suggestions along those'lines. 
ist 
things which come to mind. 
If my, ist has an idiosyncratic character, so wouid any child’s. For 
not only have their individual tastes but also use particular books 
particular thing i 
in that book which speaks to their particular 
{ condi ion. One of mine, for example, loved a book by Robert 
McCloskey called Blueberries for Sal which is about a bear mother 
and child and human mother and child getting scrambled and then 
ght back together properly again, and at a time of great stress 
(she'd had to have part of a finger sewed back on) had it read over 
and ver. She would wake at night crying, and | would hit her with 
lueberries for Sal, and:she’d go back.to sleep comforted. Also, 
ke grown-ups, like from time to time to rest or rot their 
minds 
with trash. 
Anyway, some suggestions. 
Krauss’ Bears is perfect play, and her book The Big World and 
ttle House is a beautiful statement about being at home in the 
Antonio Frasconi’s multi-lingual woodblock picture books See and 
Say and More See and Say are extraordinary, and even nicer is The 
now and the Sun. 
"he tiny, precise books by Beatrix Potter may seem too old-fashioned 
‘0 parents 
who think of themselves as advanced, but | think should be 
looked at. The best known is of course The Story of Peter Rabbit 
but some others are more interesting. 
| like especially The Tailor of 
Indian Tales 
About ten years ago a story went around that a beatnik 
girl in Sausalito wrote to Ezra Pound and asked him how 
0 write poetry. Pound replied promptly. “Read Indian 
ales by Jaime de Angulo. It is how.” 
ngulo was a linguist at Berkeley, a bohemian person- 
y in early Big Sur, and a good friend to the “primitive” 
/ 
t River Indians in Northern California. (His challenge to 
the notion of primitive may be found in his excellent 
article “Indians in Overalls’, reprinted in The Hudson 
Review Anthology, Vintage, 1967). He wrote these 
stories for his children. They are made from odds and ends 
of his experiences with Indian stories, language, lore, and 
nysterious occasions. They are the best children’s stories 
| know, and they are more simply Indian than anything 
else I’ve read. 
PFA in Berkeley has superb tapes of De Angulo 
reading the stories. 
Maybe they’ve decomposed by now. 
i they were made into a record set, I‘d buy them ina 
5th Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10011 
O1 WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
‘Ss 
why it made a cry.) — 
Some really good collections of poetry are: orient Read’ 
Way Delight; Dunning (ed) Reflections on a Gift of Watermelc ne 
Pickle (can be got in paper, but the photographic illustratio: 
‘ 
so good the hard cover is worth it if you can afford it) and 
C. F. Moule’s Miracles (poems by children.) Carl Sandburg’s p 
Wind Song can be got in paper. 
, 
a 
_ 
Maur’ e Sendak’s Where the Wild Things Are is peateredoy mine. 
Cambridge types. 
I'm not sure if you can get in the U. S. Tove Jansson’s The Book 
About Moomin, Mymble and Little My, but if you can get it you'll 
be.amazed: 
Finnish surrealism. 
Dr: Seuss, as is well-known, writes splendid nonsense; for me, the 
one which comes off best is /f J Ran the Circus. 
Having listed all this fantasy, | would like to cite also one very 
go 
book about fact: Mary Elting’s The Lollypop Factory and 
Lo: 
Others which is about industrial organization, written in a nici 
nonsense style like those old books by Ilin. There is a Giant Gold 
Encyclopaedia which doesn’t tell you much about anything, 
but 
the sort of thing it is fun to browse through. 
For somewhat older children: 
_ 
All the books by Laura Ingalls Wilder are wonderful. They should 
probably be read more or less in order, not only because they follow 
the chronology of her own life (they are autobiography) but because 
the scale of vision in each is that of the age level represented. The 
first one, The Little House in the Big Woods, is in its own way a 
sort of child’s Whole Earth thing anyhow, full of careful descriptions 
of such things as how to make a smoke house and smoke meat in it 
and how to make a wood-and-leather door latch. My favorite of the 
lot is The Little House on the Prairie; the chapter in that on ‘Indians 
Going Away” is for me one of the most perfect pieces of writing in 
English for any audience. 
E. B. White's Charlotte’s Web is a wonderful book about the basic 
things——friendship, death and birth. 
Randall Jarrell’s The Bat Poet is a fine book about being a poet and 
has some great bat poetry; his The Animal Family is also the real 
stuff. 
Saint Exupery’s The Little Prince one might think is really for grown- 
ups, but my kids like it. 
P. S. Beagle, The Last Unicorn. So sad. 
Tolkien, of course. 
Three books which we have loved which might not go for kids who 
don’t know New York, are Jean Merrill’s The Pushcart War (guerilla 
warfare against trucks) Doris Plenn’s The Green Song (about being a 
Puerto Rican, in this case a frog, in New York) and George Selden’s 
The Cricket in Times Square (on being alive at all in New York.) 
a 
3 
I'd also like to list one stunning biography available in paper, which - 
| have been giving away to friends of mine: Journey Towards 
4 
Freedom: The Story of Sojurner Truth by Jacqueline Bernard. 
If you are far from libraries-or bookstores, Blackwell’s in Oxford — 
has a splendid children’s book catalog, and the price of booksin 
England is so reasonable that even with postage it may be cheaper 
than here; they are very obliging about letting you set up an account 
rather than paying for each order. 
!f you write them they will reply 
— 
(or have to me) via a handwritten letter. 
Now for another department. 
If you are going to list books on such 
finicky crafts as macrame, | think you should list Cookies and Brea 
The Baker’s Art by \|se Johnson and Nika Standen Hazelton, Reinho 
Publishing Corp., $6.95. Most of it consists of photographs of items 
in an exhibition of ornamental breads and cookies at the Museum of — 
Contemporary Crafts, but it also has some how-to directions and we 
went absolutely wild here one Saturday making instant stained-gla 
with cookie dough and pounded-up sourballs. 
| was rendered absolutely euphoric by your review of my book, 
The View from the Barrio, in the fall issue. Such a contrast to the 
¥ 
American Anthropologist. They sort of liked it, but were made very 
uneasy by the lack of footnotes. 
: 
Loyally, 
Two very old-fashioned books which might or might not go for 
some kids in this age are Frances Hodgson Burnett's The Secret 
Garden which is about a couple of terribly neurotic kids growing 
into health by working together to make a garden come back to 
life, and George MacDonald's 
At the Back of the North Wind which 
is a terribly strange book, | guess metaphorically about death. 
Selma Lagerlof's The Wonderful Adventures of Vils; travelling 
around Scandinavia with a flock of wild geese. 
Lisa R. Peattie 
Newton, Mass. 
Some children like fairy stories and some don't. Those who do 
usually need a big supply; readily available in paper are the red, 
blue, pink etc. fairy books. The stories of Hans Andersen are 
usually listed as fairy stories, but of course they are something 
else than ‘‘tales,”’ 
“Listen, Fox, it is not | who started this idea that there was a man 
“ 
telling this story, it was you. For all we know, there is no such man.” 
: 
Fox was laughing. He said, ‘Seriously, Oriole, why did we grow up 
so fast? Only yesterday, when we began our story and | started to 
see the world with my father, who was then areal Bear...” 
“Of course, there is not, | invented him.” 
OUig Incl 
eal 
No: Ded 
DIRE OR. HOES IGE ANGE NEST 
“That doesn’t prove anything. Marum’da invented the people, and 
yet, he wasonly a beginning of a bear, he was a person-bear. Now he 
¢ 
be 
they existed whether he liked it or not. Maybe you invented the man 
is a bearman—| mean a man-bear .. .| mean... 
= 
3 
= 
: 
; 
who is telling this story, so now he exists. 
It’s too bad, but now you 
can’t get rid of him.” 
“Oh, keep quiet. You are getting: 
me all mixed up again.” 
“No, Fox, listen to me; | will explain. The man who is telling 
our story, it’s his fault, he has done something wrong with the 
machinery of time, he has let it go too fast. You see, he was 
supposed to take a million years to tell our story. The poor fellow, 
he is too old, he gets all mixed up. He should go and take a rest in 
the country for a while.” 
“Yes, | will. I'll destroy him the way Marum’da did the people.” 
“Then you 
know what will happen, Mister? You won’t exist any 
more because he is the one who is telling the story.” 
“Oh, oh, oh, stop, Oriole!’’ Fox was holding his head in both hands. 
: 
Then he laughed as he pulled Oriole to her feet and they both ran 
% 
down the hill. 
“Oh, my, my, my!” sighed the Fox, ‘‘the only thing to do is to 
start again RIGHT AT THE BEGINNING.” Fox looked curiously at 
Oriole. “What do you mean, 
aMILLION years?’ 
Smoke: hole 
He heard a sweet voice sing Abide With Me. 
e 
[tHe chetd 
And then he helped them carry Emmit in his coffin outside to 
where the sled was waiting. 
To_explain 2 winter-hovse of the large communal hype 
dug partly underground 
“Why, | mean an infinity of time, just as Tsimmu was telling in his 
story of the creation of the world, Don’t you remember? Ten times 
ten times ten times ten years, molossi molossi molossi tellim 
piduuwi. When Cocoon Man was floating around in nothing but air 
and fog he waited a million years for that cloud to come near 
enough so he could jump on it.” 
“Yes," said Fox. ‘Yes, just like Marum‘da, who made the world and 
then he went to sleep. That's an infinity 
of time, but it must stop 
somewhere—it can’t go on forever. It must stop somewhere.” 
Oriole asked, ‘‘“WHY? "’ 
And he walked with Leonard leading the horse up Trace Fork, 
the others coming behind, not the old folks, not Mrs. Godsey nor 
Mr. Olney, just those who could make it in the sun over the broken 
road and then across the broken hillside up the rugged slope past 
yellow, yellow earth of the churned up land, 
And he helped them lower the coffin into the grave 
e 
And he walked with Marcella and Doyle and Leonard and the 
Fox thought a moment then he said, ‘I dunno. But listen, Oriole, 
rest back down to the homeplace 
what's time anyway?” 
Oriole said, ‘‘Why, it’s ten times ten times ten times ten years. What 
else do you want it to be?” 
And Mrs. Thornton had been in the old house, cleaning up, and 
someone had brought food, fried chicken and cakes and pies and a 
great bow! of green beans cooked with a piece of fat, 
Fox said, ‘’| dunno, | guess it’s growing old.” 
Oriole said, ‘All right, then, some people grow old faster than others. 
You know that yourself. Just as some people walk faster than others. 
It all depends on who is looking at it.’” 
And D.R. ate with the people and talked with them and Marcella 
_ 5 
and her family stayed that night at the homeplace and it was a 
marvelous, far-out time they had, talking about the old days, 
“Why, Oriole, you are crazy. It depends on who is walking, not on 
the man who is looking at the fellow who is walking.” 
“No, certainly NOT. 
Look at that man over there walking. He 
seems to be just crawling along, but if you were close to him, 
he would be going much faster. That's the way with the man who 
is telling this story. Sometimes he is closer and sometimes he is 
farther away, so for him that makes us go faster or slower.’” 
That evening in itself’s a story but I’m just too tired now honey 
f 
to tell you any more. I’m crashing now, falling into sleep again, 
E 
here in Emmit’s bed. 
I'll tell you the rest when | wake up, for 
there’s oh so much to say. 
Fox said, ‘‘Oriole, you drive me crazy. Now | don’t know whether 
| am standing on my head or my feet. It's like that time when we 
first met you and your father.’ 
Children’s Books 
Learning 
Pe 
es kee 
~ 
—_ 
Z 
