h 
s Book 
Racket 
We have found that once you deal with a distributor of mass books 
the mass publishers are reluctant to sell to you. (I think it's some 
sort of conspiracy.) Mass distributors have some advantages in that 
they are everywhere there are magazines (that’s the other side of 
their business) so there is probably one near you. This means that 
” 
you can call in an order one day and can get it two days later. 
Delivery is cheap if not free and you can even go pick up the books 
yourself. Ask and maybe they will let you take a shopping cart 
around and pick the books off the shelves yourself (check out their 
nudie magazines while you're there.) Returns are also done with no 
_ 
hassle. None of these things do the Truck Store much good as we 
carry very few mass books but if you are doing a more general store 
you will find these things helpful. However they quite often don't 
stock the books you want as the bulk of their trade is traditionally 
with drug stores and magazine stands and they are not easily 
persuaded; if it doesn’t sell at the corner grocery they won’t stock 
it. THEY ONLY ALLOW 30% DISCOUNT and sometimes less 
which is hardly enuff to get by on. 
If you do mail order you can 
lose money. 
How To Get Around This (Maybe) 
If you are just starting | suggest that you set up accounts with mass 
publishers from the beginning telling them you are a new store. 
If 
they try to direct you toward a local distributor tell them you're 
not interested (ours makes deliveries before we open and many 
boxes of books have been rained on). Then, when you are 
established, see what kind of service the local guy can give you. 
This way at least you have an option. 
If you've already been buying 
from the distributor and want to order direct, send in an order to 
the publisher. The minor mass houses will be more likely to ship 
direct because their local distribution isn’t very good but with the 
major publishers this probably won't work. Another tactic would 
be to use the order form the publishers send out with promo 
material (tho you might have to write first telling them to put you 
on their mailing list. Getting yourself listed in Publishers’ Weekly as 
a new store accomplishes this, not a bad thing to do.) They might 
just fill your order automatically or they might send it back to your 
local distributor to fill. But if they do fill it they cannot legally 
refuse to ship future orders direct, though they might. 
Another tactic is to get in touch with their salesmen (though being 
regional he may be far away) and get him to send in your order or 
a letter okaying your order. 
He'll be somewhat sympathetic as 
more orders mean more money for him and it will look like he’s 
really doing his job. The problem here is that he probably isn’t, 
and you may have some trouble finding him. The main office may 
tell you who he is or send him your way or you could ask other 
salesmen, bookstores, or maybe quality distributors. 
| wouldn’t ask 
the mass distributor as he may catch on that you want to take your 
business elsewhere. 
Some distributors: 
Ray Surguine (3640 Walnut, Boulder, Colorado 80302) is a western 
wholesaler that carries both quality and mass paperbacks. Their 
discounts are straight 30% on mass and 40% on quality with a 
minimum order of 25 books on each. They are a good firm to do 
business with when your local guy doesn't have what you want and 
you are doing battle with the mass publisher. 
Book People (2940 7th St., Berkeley, Ca. 94710) is a quality paper- 
back wholesaler. They are unique in that they carry a lot of small 
presses. They have a free catalog. 
L & S Distributors (1161 Post St., S. F., Ca. 94109) carry a lot of 
the same publishers as Book People but fill orders faster and seem 
to have books in stock more regularly. They give good service and 
we use them alot. 
Baker & Taylor Company has regional offices (Somerville, N.Y. 
08876; Mommence, I|!. 60954; and Reno, Nevada 89502). They 
carry a very complete line of hardbacks, including text editions, and 
a limited selection of trade paperbacks. 
The East Coast is full of wholesalers of all kinds of books. Check 
the telephone books for names of mass distributors, either under 
Books or under Magazines. 
There are lots of things | didn’t talk about, most of which are 
contained in HOW TO RUN A PAPERBACK BOOKSTORE. Things 
like stock control, checking invoices and paying bills, making 
returns, setting up credit and budgeting have to be learned and 
systemized as you go along, everyone has their own way of doing it. 
One prime piece of advice to those of you who've never run a 
bookstore before would be to get yourself a job for a while to 
apprentice or if you can’t do this try and hire someone who knows 
Something about the business. 
If you have any specific questions 
you can write to us and we will try and answer them. 
Please don’t 
send orders to us and expect us to fill them at a discount as we are 
a retailer just like you. Good luck. 
—Laura Besserman 
Sam 
Falk 
The Quick Hard Summary. 
In the September 69 Supplement, Stewart boldly invited 
anyone who was thinking of opening a Whole Earth Store 
to write to Hal for a quick hard summary. We've since 
had many 
inquiries & various of our staff have written 
numerous more or less quick & more or less hard summaries. 
Here’s a sort of composite of all that information. 
We've 
also told folks to write to the two going stores we now 
know of, & they’ve been very helpful: 
Whole Earth Access Co. 
Whole Earth Cooperative 
2466 Shattuck 
845 East Johnson 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
Madison, Wisc 53703 
(415) 848-0510 
(608) 256-8828 
The Quick Hard Summary 
First, get lots of money to start with. Ideally, enough to run on for 
at least six months, preferably longer, & assuming whatever you make 
during the first raunchy months will go for unforeseen expenses, which 
there always are. A very rough minimum estimate is $10,000; it 
depends alot on how much space you want to occupy & what you 
plan to do with it. Basic necessary expenses are: rent——often 
first & last months’, plus cleaning deposit maybe——utilities——gas, 
electric, phone, water, garbage, some deposits required; insurance; 
equipment & supplies (possibly cash register, adding machine, 
typewriters), forms, paper, notebooks, files; use permit from your 
city——not much ($10—$50); furniture & redecorating: desks, 
tables, chairs, shelving, display areas, signs, etc. (A lot can be done 
with used stuff). If you don’t have them you'll need tools——hammers, 
saws, etc. And paint. Salaries——possibly the largest single item, 
unless people work for free, which tends to breed poverty & discontent. 
Now——assuming you have some bread, or think you can get some—— 
find a place. Not too high-rent, but hopefully somewhere where 
people walk by alot. Don’t sign a lease until you have a friendly 
lawyer check it-—most agencies use standard forms that are designed 
to screw the tenant, but you can change clauses you don’t like if 
they want to rent the building. Next: apply to your town or city 
for ause permit, which often takes a while to get. 
Without one 
you can be shut down forthwith. Apply to your state for a resale 
permit, same reason. 
Invite your local building inspector & 
fire 
inspector to come inspect——before signing a lease, if possible. 
Because——if you’re in an old building, you may be required by 
law to make changes in wiring, plumbing, fix leaks, etc. at your 
own expense. Again this is preventative——later harassment can 
come from these areas, 
& you have no recourse. 
Again, a good 
friendly lawyer can be a lot of help in knowing local ordinances, 
etc. Also, lots of towns are zoned so that you can only do bust- 
ness in certain areas. 
Find out about zoning before renting. 
Hopefully when you start getting your building into shape & see 
how much space you have, you can start ordering stock. A good 
idea is to figure out how much it’s going to cost you to keep the 
physical place & the people going for six months. 
Then see how 
much money you have left & order your stock accordingly. 
You'll 
probably have already opened a checking account. 
If you're 
going to stock books, join the American Booksellers Association 
——$25 gets you a manual of publishers with info on almost all 
publishers——their discounts, access info, credit terms, polictes, 
etc., free advice; & so forth. 
You can also file a statement of your 
credit with their affiliated group——the American Book Publishers 
Council; whenever you open a new account with a publisher you 
AAA Adding Machine Company 
! wish we’d known about this outfit when we started 
business. They carry used and reconditioned calculators, 
adding machines and cash registers at good prices. 
—SB 
Catalog 
FREE 
from: 
AAA Adding Machine Company 
26-09 Jackson Avenue 
Long Island City, New York 11101 
MARCHANT 
$99.00 
Automatic carriage return 
+ Carriage tabulation; preset 
decimal 
as well as multiplication 
+ No repeat or non-re- 
peat keys 
+ Automatic elimination 
of 1 in division 
«+ 
Complete carriage carry-over «Exclusive keyboard check 
dial 
+ Complete in line’3 figure proof. 
just tell him your credit was established there, he looks you up, 
& things are speeded up considerably. 
Usually publishers & suppliers 
require payment in advance on your first, or first several orders—— 
after a 
while you can order, be sent an invoice, & have 30 days to 
pay. The more you order at once, the better discount you get——it’s 
a question of working up to where youre selling enough that you 
can afford to order in larger quantities. It takes an average of a 
month for orders to arrive. By the way, when opening accounts, 
please make it clear that you're not connected with us——we've had 
trouble already with publishers putting other people’s accounts on 
our statements, because of similarity of names. 
What to sell? Depends alot on you. 
We do mostly books & 
that’s 
what we know most about——also some merchandise (Ashley 
Stoves, Corona corn mill, Aladdin lamps, Snugli baby carriers, etc.) 
& a few magazines. A lot of the people who've written to us are 
interested in health food; arts & crafts, & other trips. Selling food 
requires special permits; that’s about all we know. 
You can often 
get local arts & crafts on consignment (you pay the artist when the 
item is sold), which can save you some basic stock expense. A rule 
of thumb in ordering books is that cheap paperbacks sell the most—— 
you can be surer of selling more of them than of the more expensive 
hardbacks. 
The Catalog itself is our bestseller, could probably be 
yours too. 
OK. If you get this far——plan a gala opening for publicity——invite 
Everyone & serve cheap (homade!) goodies. 
Word of mouth ts best 
advertising we've found. But you can put up posters, flyers, what- 
ever. 
Try to get your local newspaper to do a feature on you. Smile 
a lot. 
We’d like to see a Whole Earth Store in every town. 
Yea!! But 
before you start, be sure you're ready to do business——you will 
have to hassle with publishers & suppliers, keep records, mess with 
forms, numbers, paperwork. 
You will need a lot of human energy 
——someone has to do: ordering stuff, keeping track of what comes 
in, selling stuff, bookkeeping, cleaning up around the jomt, correspon- 
dence, typing, filing, building or buying equipment, furniture, painting, 
keeping track of what you have & what you need (inventory), busi- 
ness with landlord & miscellaneous officials, decision-making, paying 
bills & payroll, etc., etc. Our aim here is not to discourage anyone, 
but to encourage open-eyedness about the prospects. 
—Diana Shugart 
Sam 
Falk 
Co 
Wis xt Ww Cae) 
=] 
Beginning in his mind, then flowing down along his spine and 
outward through his body, the change came slowly over him. D.R.’s 
hands waited for it to be complete. Then, on their own, unhurried, 
they began to toss the coins. Six times they shook and dropped the 
coins, and the reading materialized: 
Ken/Keeping Still, Mountain 
“The image of this hexagram is the mountain, the youngest of 
heaven and earth. The male principle is at the top, because it strives 
upward by nature; the female principle is below, since the direction 
of its movement is downward. Thus there is rest because the 
movement has come to its normal end. 
“The hexagram signifies the end and the beginning of all 
movement. The back is named because in the back are located all 
the nerve fibers that mediate movement. 
If the movement of these 
spinal nerves is brought to a standstill, the ego, with its restlessness, 
disappears as it were. When a man has thus become calm, he may 
turn to the outside world. He no longer sees in it the struggle and 
tumult of individual beings, and therefore he has that true peace of 
mind which is needed for understanding the great laws of the 
universe and for acting in harmony with them. Whoever acts from 
these deep levels makes no mistakes.” 
Stranger In A Strange Land: D.R. tried to read that novel by 
lamplight after he went to bed, but he was too sleepy to pay 
attention. 
Some other time, he said to himself. 
And he blew the lamp out and went to sleep. 
