Herbs 
I would like to turn people on to herbs. You can grow herbs in the 
corner of your vegetable garden, in a patio box, in a window, ina 
window, in a flowerpot. 
You can be an agriculturalist with only a 
few square feet of ground and prepare yourself 
for that land you 
ultimately hope to gain part or all your livelihood from. You can 
use your herbs for flavoring cooking, for salads, for making things 
smell nice, for dying cloth, for curing yourself of all sorts of ill- 
nesses, for making magic and casting spells, for alchemy. And herbs 
are beautiful, simple plants, most of which grow and flourish even 
roe! soil, 
You can even grow your own I Ching yarrow 
St 
I haven't investigated many herb books as yet; maybe some of the 
other readers can recommend some good ones; anyway, better to 
Start with the herbs and get to the books later. One interesting 
one I’ve seen is NATURE’S MEDICINES——The Folklore, Romance, 
and Value of Herbal Remedies really lays down a lot of lore. 
Another good one is HANDBOOK ON HERBS published by the 
Brooklyn Botanical Gardens, Brooklyn, N.Y., which is enough to 
get you hooked on herbs all by itself. The Brooklyn Botanical 
Garden, by the way, publishes a wonderful bunch of books on all 
phases of gardening, all of which sell for either $1.00 or $1.50 
(the herb one is $1.00) Free list available from them. 
As an example of herb lore, someone told me that when he gets 
a bad case of poison oak, he uses a leaf of comfrey to scratch 
with, rubbing it freely over the itchy spot, and wipes out the poison 
oak in a few days. However, he says, if you use a comfrey poultice 
on an infection or wound, don’t bind the leaf directly to the skin, 
as it’s so effective in promoting the growth of epithelial cells that it 
may actually grow to the skin. The Nature’s Medicines book has a 
lot more rap on comfrey. 
A problem with growing herbs is that there are seldom more than a 
few of the most common types in the local nursery. 
Sol 
talked 
to someone who is really into herbs, spices, gardening, essential oils, 
gourds, and all that useful vegetable stuff, and asked her where to 
get herbs, etc. She sent me a list of addresses, I sent for their cata- 
logs, and the following is all about that. 
Nature’ Herb Co,, 281 Ellis St., San Francisco, Calif. They sell 
dried herbs and spices by the pound, ingredients for potpourris and 
Sachets, prepared herbal remedies, and essential oils. Also various 
herbal tea mixtures for both enjoyment and medicine. 
Herb Products Co., 11012 Magnolia Blud., North Hollywood, Calif. 
91601. Much the same as the above, with the addition of some 
far-out cosmetics. They are very much into ginseng, and can tell 
you something about that. Their prices tend to be a little higher 
than Nature’s Herb Co., but each has things that the other doesn’t 
Indiana Botanic Gardens, Inc., Hammond, Indiana 46325. 
They 
will send you a very far-out catalog and an herbalists almanac, which 
will tell you the best days to plant, what the weather will be like 
for all of 1969, and other useful tidbits. They sell teas and medicines, 
herbs and spices, seeds, beans, nuts, gums, resins, oils, vitamins, 
cosmetics, perfumes, formulas to cure liquor addiction. tobacco habit, 
and tobacco chewing, and tell you what grateful users write about 
rectal ointment no. 103. 
Tradewinds Candle Shop, 1224A Fillmore Street, San Francisco, 
Calif. I throw this in just for the hell of it. They sell candles, but 
their scene is magic. I was last there several years ago, and it 
appeared to be an old established business, run by an elderly 
white-haired man who looked like a Suth’n Cuhn’l, and his wife, 
who looked like a Haitian voodoo lady. They sell the usual oils, 
powders, etc., but I think they may also handle other things they 
don’t list in their catalog. They will also give intelligent advice on 
how to change your luck, make money, make your love love you, 
etc. They make no outrageous claims, but will answer questions. 
I tried them once, and their advice worked, but [ don’t think I’d do 
it again. Handle at your own risk. 
None of the above deal in things for gardening. 
Meadowbrook Herb Garden, Wyoming, Rhode Island 02898. 
Their catalog is a beautiful piece of printing and caligraphy. They 
don’t ship live plants, but will deliver if you live within forty miles. 
They sell herb teas and tea herbs, spices, seeds, toiletries, books, 
supplies, and miscellany. They seem to be into Anthroposophy and 
something called Bio-Dynamics. 
Carl Odom, Pinola, Mississippi 39149. He will send you a very down- 
home two-sheet catalog on newsprint, telling you all the groovy 
things you can do with gourds. I won’t say anything about it and 
ruin it for you. He also sells vegetable and flower seeds. 
Nichols Garden Nursery, 1190 North Pacific Hwy., Albany, Oregon 
97321. They will send you an incredible 44-page catalog that will 
require every ounce of your willpower to keep you from making a 
hundred dollar order on the spot. Seeds for vegetables and herbs, 
growing plants, dried herbs and spices, mushroom spores, wild- 
flower seeds, house plants, gourd seeds, books, supplies, brewing 
and winemaking stuff, and all sorts of other oddments. 
They 
specialize in the unusual, like very large, very tasty, or very different 
vegetables. 
Their catalog is mimeographed because, they say, “mod- 
ern, high speed presses could probably do the job better, but we 
believe that people are more important than machines, and for that 
reason will continue to resist automation.” I bought some live 
plants from them, they arrived in good condition and are now 
growing well. 
Woodland Acres Nursery, Crivitz, Wisconsin 54114. 
They specialise 
in wildflowers and ferns, many of which have herbal uses, and sell 
mostly live plants. 
Greene Herb Garden, Greene, Rhode Island. Getting their catalog 
is like hearing from your nice aunt that lives in the country. 
Full of 
news about their family, spring in New England, and gentle conver- 
sation about herbs. 
They sell only herb seeds and bulbs. 
Vita Green Farms, P.O. Box 878, Vista, California 92083. 
They sell 
vegetable and herb seeds, vegetables, fruits, and preserves. If you 
want organic produce and are not near a good health food store, 
their vegetables might be worth investigating. Expensive, but I'm 
sure they’re excellent. All vegetables are organically grown, seeds 
are “un-tréated, natural, old-fashioned, un-hybridized, un-crossed.” 
Their tone is a little stern, but anyone who raises organic produce 
for a living is bound to be a fanatic and a crusader. I sent for some 
of their seeds, and they came virtually before I put the letter in 
the mailbox. 
They are also pure water maniacs, and sell various 
types of home filtering units. 
Walnut Acres, Penns Creek, Pennsylvania 17862. They sell nothing 
for gardening, but have the most complete selection of organic 
; 
foods and related products I’ve ever seen, including every conceiv- 
able organic grain. Prices are high, but they have all sorts of stuff 
I’ve never seen before. They also seem like very beautiful people 
who love and are concerned about the world around them. 
That’s all for now. 
I'll keep in touch. Keep up the good work. 
o 
Love, 
Roland 
Herbs 
Land Use 
A Modern Herbal 
This is far and away the most complete (and expensive) 
information on herbs. 
“The medicinal, culinary, cosmetic and economic 
properties, cultivation and folk-lore of herbs, grasses, 
fungi, shrubs and trees with all their modern 
scientific uses...“ 
Over 160 useful plants are listed—the history, 
description, constituents, medicinal uses, prep- 
aration, dosages, and even recipes of each. 
!t is a two-volume set, with a meticulously 
complete index of the common names of the 
plants, followed by a service index of Latin 
binomials. 
[Reviewed by Alan Schmidt] 
Comfrey leaves are of much value as an external remedy, both in 
the form of fomentations, for sprains, swellings and bruises, 
and as a poultice, to severe cuts, to promote suppuration of 
boils and abscesses, and gangrenous and ill-conditioned ulcers. 
The whole plant, beaten to a cataplasm and applied hot as a 
poultice, has always been deemed excellent for soothing pain 
in any tender, inflamed or suppurating part. 
It was formerly 
applied to raw, indolent ulcers as a glutinous astringent. 
It 
is useful in any kind of inflammatory swelling. 
. The reputation of Comfrey as a vulnerary has been considered 
due partly to the fact of its reducing the swollen parts in the 
immediate neighbourhood of fractures, causing union to take 
place with greater facility. 
The Herb Grower 
A quarterly for grow-your-own herbalists with articles by 
—HH 
The Herb Grower 
$5.00 per year (quarterly) 
from: 
The Herb Grower 
Falls Village, Connecticutt 06031 
Stalking the Healthful Herbs 
Euell Gibbons (more on p. 82) has maximum information 
on finding herbs, and cheerfulness to match. 
—SB 
Stalking the Healthful Herbs 
Euell Gibbons 
1966; 295 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
David McKay Company, Inc. 
750 Third Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
GINSENG 
Nichols Herb & Rare Seeds 
Nichols and his wife who seem to have just popped out of 
boxes and pigeon holed walls and odd notes tacked up all 
over the place. He is basically a mail order business and 
sells wine making supplies, beer making supplies (and 
ingredients) and rare seeds and herbs and plants and all sorts 
of weird stuff. He also printed his own recipe book which 
is fantastic for sourdough stuff, wine & beer making, and 
baking with malt syrup and hops also lots of recipes for 
yeast. 
They are really beautiful old souls who send you home 
with extra goodies that you are to try and accept as 
gifts. 
Needless to say——they’re organic. They have a fairly 
complete catalog that they will send and their seeds 
really are superior. 
[Reviewed by Mrs. K.E. Sturdevant] 
Nichols Garden Nursery 
1190 N. Pacific Hwy. 
Albany, Oregon 97321 
same, plus herb prints, recipes, herb history and book reviews. 
the Black Forest. 
The whole place is one room of cardboard 
A Modern Herbal 
Mrs. M. Grieve, F.R.H.S. 
1931... 1967; 2 Vols, 888 pp. 
$29.50 
postpaid 
ERBAL 
VOL 
| 
WHIM MORE THAN 
160 
HL USTRATIONS 
from: 
Hafner Publishing Co., Inc. 
31 East 10th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
By Mn MGRIFVIOFRHS 
Nettle. 
It isa strange fact that the juice of the Nettle proves an antidote 
for its own sting, and being applied will afford instant relief. 
From a culinary point of view the Nettle has an old reputation. 
It is one of the few wild plants still gathered each spring by 
country-folk as a pot-herb. 
It makes a healthy vegetable, easy 
of digestion. 
The young tops should be gathered when 6 to 8 inches high. 
Gloves should be worn to protect the hands when picking 
them. They should be washed in running water with a 
stick and then put into a saucepan, dripping, without any 
added water, and cooked with the lid on for about 20 minutes 
... they thus form a refreshing dish of spring greens,which is 
slightly laxative. 
In autumn, however, Nettles are hurtful, the 
leaves being gritty from the abundance of crystals they contain. 
An efficient hair tonic can be prepared from the Nettle: simmer 
a handful of young Nettles in a quart of water for 2 hours, 
strain and bottle when cold. Well saturate the scalp with the 
lotion every other night. This prevents the hair falling and 
renders it soft and glossy. 
Some more herb suppliers: 
Rocky Hollow Herb Farm 
Lake Wallkill Rd. 
Sussex, New Jersey 
50¢ for catalog 
Capriland’s Herb Farm 
Silver St. 
Coventry, Connecticut 06238 
Mail Box Seeds 
Shirley Morgan 
2042 Encinal Ave. 
Alameda, California 94501 
herb seeds 
Greene Herb Gardens 
Greene, Rhode Island 02827 
Common and rare herbs and herb seeds. From Borage and 
Chervil to Lovage, 
Sweet Cicely and Woad. Seed packets, 
three for $1.00. Brochure. 
Meadowbrook Herb Garden 
Wyoming, Rhode Island 02898 
Organically grown herbs and seeds, Teas, seaweed meal and 
herb books. 
Oak Ridge Herb Farm 
R.R. #1, Box 461 
Alton, Illinois 62002 
Also completely organic. Rare herb seeds, plants, roots and 
bulbs. Teas. Free catalog. 
Northwestern Processing Company 
217 North Broadway 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53202 
A young company just getting into the mail order business. 
High quality spices, reasonable prices, coffees, teas, nuts, 
and herbs. They'll do their best to get rare herbs and products 
you can’t find anywhere else. They also have a wholesale 
outlet, Kettle Creek Company. Free cata/og. 
Dominion Herb Distributors, Inc. 
61 Saint Catherine Street West 
Montreal 129, Quebec CANADA 
Besides being an excellent source of plants for dyes (see 
p. 98) they stock over 2000 different herbs, roots, barks, 
gums, berries and seeds. Canadian-grown Ginseng Root. 
Free catalog. 
D. Napier & Sons 
17, 18 Bristo Place 
& 1 Teviot Place 
Edinburgh EH1, SCOTLAND 
Low /ow prices and some unusual herbs and herbal products, 
like Barberry bark powder, Dandelion coffee, Slippery 
Elm Bark Soap and Unicorn Root Powder. Free brochure. 
[Suggested by Dr. Duncan Pepper] 
