Knot Note 
Step-By-Step Macrame (p. 155) has sold 500,000 copies in 
about 2 years. Does that many people tied in knots reflect 
some enormous cats-cradle of American psyche going on? 
—SB 
Macramé, the Art of Creative Knotting 
Although designs for knotted pieces differ according to 
locale and use, there are very few individual knots. 
Virginia |. Harvey has collected photographs of traditional 
Knotted pieces throughout the world and presents them in 
a book called Macramé, the Art of Creative Knotting. She 
carefully diagrams the half-knot, square knot, double half- 
hitch, diagonal double half-hitch, vertical double half- 
hitch and other knots. 
The basic knots are described in 
detailed instructions for making a sampler. Following 
the pattern for the sampler will give the beginner experience 
in doing the knots, and show how combining just a few 
types of knots can offer large pattern variation. 
This book is the best reference manual of knotting technique 
available. 
/t offers information on all facets of macramé, 
including discussion on planning, mounting, shaping and 
finishing a knotting project. 
Tools and materials are dis- 
played. 
There are photos exhibiting how different fibers 
worked in the same pattern can vastly alter visual and 
textural effects. 
The pictorial history of macramé and 
examples of contemporary knotting projects offer plenty 
of design ideas for more advanced macramé craftsmen. 
Macramé, The Art of 
Creative Knotting 
Virginia |. Harvey 
1967; 128 pp. 
$8.50 postpaid 
from: 
Van Nostrand-Reinhold Co. 
450 West 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10001 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Virginia |. Harvey, author of Macramé announces the new 
quarterly publication, Threads in Action, a technical publi- 
cation on non-loom techniques. Macramé will be the 
principal subject with occasional articles on stitchery, bobbin 
lace, netting, knotless netting, sprang, knitting, crochet, 
and others. 
Subscriptions are 
$8.50/year 
Knotters interested in explicit directions for traditional 
Lacs aR Action 
Also you can get some macramé supplies from: 
macramé purses can obtain patterns by sending $1.10 
to: 
Box 468 
Pesch Art Studio, 28 Colonial Parkway, Dumont, N. J. 07628 
Freeland, Washington 98249 
House of Harvey 
with a request for ““Macramé Bags,” Booklet A. 
Individual copies are $2.50, or 
2724 NE 82d St. 
[Reviewed by Sue Boyle. 
Suggested by Alexandra Jacopetti] 
[Suggested by Helen Bitan] 
$3.25 with yellow vinyl cover. 
Seattle, Washington 98105 
Macramé 
Virginia Harvey (above) is friendly and very helpful. Dona 
Meilach is trippy and very helpful, and paperback. 
—SB 
Macramée——Creative Design in Knotting 
Dona Z. Meilach 
1971; 212 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Crown Publishers, Inc. 
419 Park Ave. South 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
or Whole Earth Catalog 
Beads are an important Macramé adjunct. They provide a surface 
enrichment compatible with the raised knot shapes and a relief to 
straight knotting. One problem is to find interesting beads with 
holes large enough to accommodate double, triple, and more cords 
required for knotting. There are several ways to overcome the bead 
problem. Some suppliers are beginning to create beads with large 
holes. 
If these are not available, buy strung Indian beads, Hippie 
beads, or bamboo curtain beads and cut them apart. You can 
easily create your own ceramic and papier-maché beads. When 
bead holes offer resistance to threading, use a fine wire for stringing 
or dip the ends of teh cords into melted wax, shape the ends to a 
point, and let the wax harden to make stringing easier. 
Two cork squares glued together and 
covered with paper marked off into 1” 
squares helps keep lines and angles of 
cords even, Pins are used to hold cords 
in place as they are worked. 
Square Knot Handicraft Guide 
by any other name, macramé, 
this book antedates the current enthusiasm 
about knotting homemade goodies. 
well illustrated, 
providing enough projects to get you through 
his winter, at least. 
~jd 
Square Knot Handicraft Guide 
Rau! Graumont and Elmer Wenstrom 
1949; 212pp. 
$4.00 postpaid 
from: 
Cornel! Maritime Press 
Box 109 
Cambridge, Maryland 21613 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
HANDICRAFT GUIDE 
5 
Macrame 
Craft 
P. C. Herwig Co. 
Calls itself Square 
Knot Headquarters, has cords, belt buckles, 
rings, beads. 
—SB 
P. C. Herwig Co., Inc. 
264 Clinton St. 
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 
DREADNAUGHT CORD No. 120 
Highest Tensile Strength 
Prater | 
Macramé & Weaving Supply 
Macra-cord, tarred marline, Navy cord, nylon seine twine, 
rattail, silk deluxe, etc. Samples 50 cents. 
—SB 
Macrame & Weaving Supply Co. 
63 East Adams 
Chicago, ||| 60603 
Mlustratect Construction of the Basic Square Knot 
