en 
Outdoor Schools and Trips 
Wilderness trips require equipment, skill, and usually, someone to 
go with. The best way to get into the wilderness is to find a friend 
who has all these, and is willing to loan you equipment and to 
share his knowledge with you. The next best thing is to go with a 
group organized by a club or professional school, camp, or guide 
service. Groups are organized to do every conceivable thing in the 
wilderness; this approach has a lot to recommend it. If you don’t 
know people who have the skills necessary for what you want to 
do in the outdoors, going on a group trip will provide them and 
give you the opportunity to get together a few people and go off 
on your own the next time. Aside from not being much fun, some 
wilderness activities are pretty dangerous if you do them alone. 
The organization that runs the trip will usually handle all the 
equipment and transportation problems; this can be important, 
Particularly on long trips, foreign trips, or on trips where a lot of 
specialized equipment is needed. The outdoor schools also do an 
Outstanding job of teaching you how to cope with outdoor prob- 
lems, and may push you to do some things you had never thought 
yourself capable of doing. You will develop the skill and confi- 
dence necessary to put together your own trips. 
Schools and group trips have their drawbacks, too. 
Most distaste- 
ful is the regimentation that is usually necessary when a group of 
people do something together; you are not completely free to set 
your own schedule and to go where you want to go. You should 
weigh this against the advantages before you go along on any trip. 
Be sure that you are ready to commit yourself to going along with 
whatever the group does. 
It can be difficult and dangerous to 
split from the rest of the group in the middle of the wilderness. 
You will probably find, though, that you have a lot more freedom 
than you had imagined. 
The cost of a trip may range from nothing to a sizeable amount of 
money, depending mostly on the amount and quality of the 
instruction you get. Some schools, particularly the ‘‘character 
building’ ones, have scholarships available. 
Another problem caused by organized trips is the rape of the 
wilderness caused by hundreds of people using it. 
If you organize 
your own trip, keep the group small. 
Mountaineering 
There are a lot of climbing schools and guide services, each one 
specializing in techniques applicable to their local mountains. 
They're expensive at first glance, but they supply a lot of equipment, 
feed you while you're there, and tive you excellent instruction and 
a healthy outlook towards the sport. Mountaineering often presents 
the only way to get away from people; most wilderness valleys are 
overcrowded. 
Mountain summits are getting that way, too, but more 
slowly. 
Unless you know someone who has a lot of experience, you 
should probably get some professional training. 
As a general rule, 
climbing schools are better than guided climbs, since guided climbs 
tend to be oriented to just hauling people up a mountain rather 
than to encouraging them to learn how to lead the party themselves. 
The schools listed below are oriented to developing understanding 
as well as skills. 
California: 
Rockcraft 
is a school run by Royal Robbins, one of the Yosemite 
rock climbing pioneers. The school is located near Lake Tahoe— 
away from the crowds and hassle of Yosemite. 
He teaches big wall 
rock climbing techniques, but won’t let you put in a whole route 
with bolts. (You can get a fine in Yosemite for cutting down a tree; 
why should drilling a hole in the rock be any different?) 
Write for 
a brochure. 
Rockcraft 
906 Durant Street 
Modesto, Calif. 95350 
Northwest: 
Mt. Hood Meadows School of Mountaineering runs the most com- 
prehensive program around. The school is run by Lute Jerstad, who 
climbed Mt. Everest in 1963, and also has Tenzing Norgay, the 
Sherpa who made the first ascent of Everest in 1953 on its staff. 
They run ice climbing seminars, rock climbing schools (instructed 
by Tom Frost, another Yosemite climber), and climbing excursions 
which climb 3 peaks in a week. Write to: 
Lute Jerstad Adventures 
9920 SW Terwilliger Blvd 
Portland, Oregon 97219 
Wyoming: 
Jackson Hole Mountain Guides has a program of guided climbs and 
instructional camps in the Teton mountains. They have literature 
describing both their programs and philosophy of mountaineering. 
Jackson Hole Mountain Guides 
Teton Village 
Wyoming 83025 
Personal Trips or Character Building 
There are a number of organizations which make use of the unfamiliar 
Situations encountered in the wilderness to build character. 
It's 
really a great approach if you are into that sort of thing. 
If you go on 
one of these schools, you will learn to feel at home in the outdoors 
and will have the confidence that you can survive in whatever situa- 
tion you find yourself. Outward Bound runs programs at five 
locations throughout the U.S. Their concept is that you can and 
should learn to rise to an emergency situation, so they often place 
you ina “sink or swim” position. They assume that you have no 
Previous experience, yet by the time you complete the course you 
will have developed enough skill to spend several days alone in the 
wilderness. The programs are expensive, but the results are incredible. 
One thing you should be aware of is that they have a tendency to 
treat the outdoors as a foe to be conquered rather than a friend to 
coexist with; this is a very different concept from most of the other 
Outdoor programs. A really turned on brochure describing all of their 
Programs is available from: 
Dartmouth Outward Bound Center 
Box 50 
Hanover, New Hampshire 
tional 
t_Leadershi 
hool trains teachers, instructors, 
and counselors for outdoor programs. They also accept people 
who want to learn skills for their own outings and expeditions 
as well as those who just want an extended wilderness &. 
. erience. 
They stress conservation and ecology during a five week summer 
course in Wyoming. The school is run by Paul Petzoldt, an out- 
standing mountaineer and outdoorsman, a Grand Teton Guide, 
and from all reports, a great person. Write directly to him for 
more information. 
Paul Petzoldt 
National Outdoor Leadership School 
Lander, Wyoming 82520 
River Trips 
River running is both easy and exciting and usually takes you through 
wild and remote country. One of the best reasons for going on an 
organized river trip is that they take care of a lot of the hassle; they 
provide boats, life jackets, waterproof bags for your gear, etc., and 
get you back from the end of the river to where your car is. Other- 
wise you have to either find somebody who isn’t making the trip 
with you up, or hitchhike— 
but many rivers start in remote country 
where only a few cars a day travel. 
American River Touring Association 
is one of the oldest operator 
of river tours. They area non-profit organization which runs first 
class trips. ARTA uses special rubber rafts rowed by one of their 
guides on the Colorado and a lot of other rivers. Prices are reasonable, 
but you have to pay extra to have your car shuttled to the end of 
the river. Write for a brochure listing all the rivers they run or 
request a spearate brochure for a specific river. 
American River Touring Association 
1016 Jackson St. 
Oakland, California 94607 
Grand Canyon Dories is the most unique of the many groups that run 
the Colorado. They use small wooden dories similar to the ones used by 
Powell on his first trip down the river. They provide air transportation 
back to your car. 
Grand Canyon Dories 
P.O. Box 5585 
Stanford, California 94305 
Lute Jerstad Adventures runs trips on several northwest rivers in six 
man rubber rafts that they teach you to row yourself. Transportation 
is provided from Portland, which overcomes the car shuttle hang up. 
Write for river trip information. 
Lute Jerstad Adventures 
9920 SW Terwilliger Blvd. 
Portland, Oregon 97219 
Bicycling 
You probably won't get too far into the wilderness on a bicycle, 
but you can move incredible distances on one and still be outdoors 
and not cause pollution. 
Several clubs run bicycle tours through 
all sorts of country; they usually are accompanied by a ‘’sag wagon”’, 
a car that carries all the baggage, which saves a lot of effort. Write 
to: 
International Bicycle Touring Society 
846 Prospect Street 
La Jolla, Calif. 92037 
or 
League of American Wheelmen (LAW) 
5118 Foster Ave. 
Chicago, II!. 60630 
Backpacking 
Get a copy of The Complete Walker, rent a pack and a sleeping bag, 
and go do it! Organized backpack trips are one of the major causes 
of deterioration of many wilderness areas. 
The Boy Scouts run an 
unbelievable number of trips, and many outdoor clubs run frequent 
trips with 10 to 50 people in a group. Backpacking is really an 
opportunity to find solitude and wilderness; don’t destroy that 
experience for yourself and others by marching up a trail with a 
crowd. One of the largest conservation organizations asked that 
their outings not be publicized because the impact on the environ- 
ment from the trips they run is becoming critical, and they would 
prefer that no more people attend them. 
Foreign Trips 
There is a lot of wilderness outside of the United States, some of it 
virtually unexplored. 
Many groups run expeditions and wilderness 
Outings to such places as the South American jungles, the Andes, 
Alaska, Iceland, Antarctica, and the Himalayas. Two major prob- 
lems occur on a wilderness.trip in a foreign country: 
logistics are 
incredible— 
if you don’t have experience, you can get really hung 
up in problems of customs, transportation to remote areas, 
language, hiring locals to carry your gear, and finding food; the other 
problem is that you may be traveling in primitive areas where 
westerners don’t usually travel. 
This is a fantastic opportunity, but 
you have to be careful not to destroy the area for both the locals 
and the next traveler. 
Many places operate on a subsistance level 
economy; they don’t have spare food to sell, and they probably 
spend most of their time raising their own food. 
If you hire some- 
body at an outrageous salary, or pay $5 for a 10¢ item, you have 
blown the whole economy all to Hell. 
Try to make arrangements 
for food and be as self sufficient as possible; leave your culture 
and economy at home. 
One way to be self sufficient is to travel 
with a group which makes all the arrangements for you. 
Mountain Travel is one of the largest organizers of foreign wilder- 
ness trips. They have a catalog which lists more than 25 trips and 
expeditions to incredible places all over the world. 
Their trips are 
really inexpensive— 
usually about 20-25 dollars per day plus 
airfare. One way they keep prices low 
is by not paying their 
leaders a salary (they just come along for free) so they sometimes 
get non-professional leaders. They take care of all of the details 
overseas, but pre-trip information assumes that you have a lot of 
previous experience. 
Free catalog from Mountain Travel! (USA) 
6201 Medau Place 
Oakland, California 94611. 
Lute Jerstad Adventures runs climbing expeditions, and is getting 
into running treks to the Mt. Everest base camp and throughout 
the Himalayas. 
All trips are lead by a professional mountain guide 
with Tenzing Norgay accompanying the Himalayan treks; this 
provides an opportunity to get acquainted with the local culture— 
Particularly in the region of Tibetan Buddhist influence near Mt. 
Everest where Tenzing was born. Trips are a little more expensive 
than Mountain Travel’s, primarily because of the leaderwhip; pre- 
trip information includes a lot of cultural background and detailed 
information on what to expect on the trip. Write for trek infor- 
mation to: 
Lute Jerstad Adventures 
9920 SW Terwilliger Blvd. 
Portland, Oregon 97219 
—Stan 
Armington 
Lute Jerstad 
Adventures 
L 
— 
The ladies hushed talking until Mrs. Godsey got the wrapper off 
the package. There were four doses in it, each folded in a Paper. 
Mrs. Godsey took out a dose, laid the box aside, then, very careful- 
ly, she poured the white powder into her R. C. Cola. 
“| use to just dump it out on my tongue,” said Mrs. Godsey. 
“But here lately it gags me to do that, so | just mix it in a dope 
now, and sort of sip on it as | go along. 
| think it’s better that way. 
Seems to stay with me longer.” 
“When | was in the hospital they fed me through the veins,” 
said Mrs. Thornton. 
“‘I laid over there three weeks and never got a 
bite to eat. 
| hated it. I've done and told Wheeler he neen to expect 
to ever take me to a hospital again. 
| told him I'd as soon pass out 
right there at the house as put up with that outfit over in town.” 
“I'm just like you, honey,” said Mrs. Godsey. 
“‘I’ve got terrible 
things wrong with me, but | aint about to go to no hospital for 
them. 
| told Leonard if | get down sick to just prop me up in bed, 
give me some sassafras tea and let the Lord take care of the rest.” 
*“‘Amen to that,” said Mrs. Thornton. 
“The Lord’s better’n any 
doctor | ever had anything to do with.” 
(continued) 
—_———— 
Trips 
Vomadics 
