164 HYPERCARD 
HyperCard 
by Kevin Kelly 
The model for HyperCard is the 3-by-5 card. A card is 
represented by a Macintosh screen. As you flip through 
screens (cards), you read them one after another, as if 
they were in a stack. Cards can hold any kind of infor- 
mation you want, in any format you designed, including 
pictures. Rather than rest inertly, as on a Rolodex, 
information on a HyperCard can be actively linked to 
any other point on any other card. Those linking spots 
can be a word, a bunch of words, or a picture. When 
your cursor touches that spot, it brings forth the card 
(screen) that it is linked to. The links form a thread 
through a “stack” of cards. You weave through a stack, 
jumping from card to card, idea to idea, choosing your 
own path by touching on the items you are interested in, 
endlessly discovering new levels, or deliberately aiming 
toward a desired card. 
Your HyperCard Rolodex, for instance, might have one 
card for every individual. You could link their telephone 
number so that it dials the number. You could link their 
address to a small map on another card to show how to 
get to their house. And that map of the town might be 
linked to several other names as well. You would then 
have an interactive Rolodex giving you as much infor- 
mation as you wanted each time. 
HyperCard will be a medium of communication. Within 
a week after it was introduced in 1986, the WELL had a 
raging conference on the topic. A prime function there 
is the Stackware Exchange where user written stacks of 
cards are swapped, showcased, and improved upon. 
Early stackware will have some of the untamed innova- 
tion that early BASIC computer programs had. The 
WELL confronts the possibilities with a topic called 
“What can you do with HyperCard?” 
Some of the things I imagine are: incredibly complex 
adventure games, self-directed classroom courseware, 
interactive shopping catalogs, pictorial spreadsheets, 
and ultimate clip art files. Enough, anyway, to get 
going. 
Skinny Macs, even Fat Macs, won’t quite do for this 
muscle-bound program. You’ll need a Hunk Mac (a 
HyperAge 
Jan Lewis, Editor 
$19.95/year 
(6 issues) from: 
HyperAge 
5793 Tyndall Avenue 
Riverdale, NY 10471 
800/682-2000 
| like this magazine 
because it avoids the 
creepy mystique and glamour that usually shrouds 
technical expertise. The premier issue (the only 
one. we’ve seen) ran lots of good stuff by promi- 
nent innovators in the HyperCard field, such as a 
special feature on interactive sound and Hyper- 
Card by Tim Oren at Apple, who did the lion’s 
share of development for the Electronic Whole 
Earth Catalog. 
—Ramon Sender Barayon 
Plus or better), with at least 1 meg RAM to run 
things smoothly. Very best is a set up with a 
hard disc. There are two official sourcesfor 
8 | 
—"™ 
HyperCard. It’s bundled free with all new 
Macintoshes, or it can be bought for $49 from a 
local Apple dealer. 
Windoid/AHUG 
Sample copy for SASE from Apple Computer, M/S 
27AQ, 20525 Mariani Boulevard, Cupertino, CA 95014 
Open Stack 
Sample copy for SASE from Walking Shadow Press, 
P.O. Box 2092, Saratoga, CA 95071 
Two useful newsletters from Silicon Valley, both 
with roots in the Apple community and local user 
groups. Each carries essential information, hot 
tios, and chatty gossip about HyperCard mania. A 
courteous SASE will get you a copy of either. Win- 
doid Nos. 1-5 are available in stack form with all 
the scripts implemented by Team Hackinslash. 
Amusing and well thought-out! Ask for BMUG Disk 
Hyper 32, $3 postpaid from BMUG, Inc. 1442A 
Walnut Street, Berkeley, CA 94709. 
—Ramon Sender Barayon 
® 
HyperCard is uniquely suited for activist causes. It goes 
without saying that its great ease of use and flexibility 
favors the underdog. Activist groups have often relied on 
people power an maneuverability to counteract the brute 
economic and political force of various Powers-That-Be; 
HyperCard can enhance both of these advantages. 
Aside from its inherent qualities, the way in which Hyper- 
Card made its entrance marked it as a paradigm of 
practical idealism. Bill Atkinson wanted to to give Hyper- 
Card away because he wanted to make the world a 
better place. Apple is consenting because they want to 
sell more computers. The result: free application that 
may eventually empower millions of people to use com- 
puters who may never have done so otherwise. 
4 
The near future will no doubt bring everything Ted Nel- 
son has described, at least as far as education is con- 
cerned. It will probably bring much more. Media labs 
around the world are experimenting with new ways to 
“connect” people to computers. For instance, tactile 
gloves are being developed that allow a person to “feel” 
objects that appear on CRT's. Masks are being devel- 
oped that enable a person to see a computer-generated 
environment. When combined, these new developments 
point to an age not far off when a person will be able to 
submerge into an entirely computerized environment 
and “commune” with information. 
You may ask what all this has to do with hypertext, but it 
is obvious that to drive these new “environments,” infor- 
mation will have to be organized in highly intercon- 
nected, non-hierarchical, and versatile ways. The data- 
bases of the future will all be “hypertext” or “hyperme- 
dia,” or what have you. In fact, information of the future 
will have to be so connected and layered that it will have 
a fractal-like quality. It will be viewable on many levels, 
deep or shallow, each seeming to have as much content 
as the next. Future databases will reflect reality, and 
they will share the physical and mathematical character- 
istics of the real world. 
—Open Stack 
What the Author Sees 
Background Picture 
ffm i 
Left Button Layer 
Right Button Layer 
What the Browser Sees 
The Complete 
HyperCard 
Handbook 
Danny Goodman 
1987; 695 pp. 
$29.95 
($31.95 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
800/223-6834 
Some software programs have all the luck. On the 
day HyperCard was released, an equally ground- 
breaking guidebook to it was published in tandem. 
Like HyperCard itself, it is thorough and deep. It’s 
a massive, hefty tome of 700 pages, completely 
fluff-free. 
It exhaustively treats the mechanics of making 
cards; assembling them into “stackware;” creating 
links; and writing instructions in HyperTalk. Even if 
you don’t usually use paint programs, you'll find 
yourself creating graphics in HyperCard regularly. 
The paint options are therefore covered in depth. 
As we worked on the Electronic Whole Earth Cata- 
log, we picked up a number of tips from the Hand- 
book we hadn't known about. Not a reference 
book per se, the Handbook does its best job illus- 
trating the conceptual innovations introduced by 
HyperCard. Notions like “stackware” (stacks of 
cards that are exchanged), “buttons” (linking hot 
spots), and “backgrounds” (the layers of informa- 
tion on a card) are all illuminated into clarity. 
| primarily use those Macintosh programs which 
stick with me if | don’t ever open the manual. But 
HyperCard, with its tools-for-making-tools struc- 
ture, is simply one Macintosh program that you 
won't be able to unfold fully without a supplemental 
help book. For the immediate future, this is the 
book to get. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Heizer Software 
Catalog and sample disk $4 from Heizer Software, 1941 
Oak Park Boulevard, Pleasant Hill, CA 94523; 415/943- 
7667 or (outside CA) 800/225-6755 
There are two sources for low cost non-commercial 
stackware: informal regional Macintosh user 
groups and Heizer Software. The former have 
them for nearly free and in overwhelming quantity; 
the latter for modest cost with more selectivity and 
annotation of content. They deal by mail and-have 
a sensible catalog. Also, their authors offer phone 
support during certain hours. 
—Ramon Sender Barayén 
