How to Use Your Library 
by Steve Cisler, Librarian 
Your local library is your main link to a tax-paid informa- 
tionnetwork. Here’s what you should do when you visit or 
call the library. First, ask if there is a reference desk. The 
people working in this area have great experience dealing 
with complex questions. A librarian can especially help 
you when you are not sure what information you need, or 
even what questions to ask. Librarians are professionals at 
clarifying unsure questions. 
Assuming that there are not five or six people waiting to be 
helped, you will be asked anumber of questions about your 
request. If youhave thought about these beforehand, let the 
librarian know the following, evenifhe or she does not ask 
you: 
1. Your deadline. Some questions, even seemingly diffi- 
cult ones, can be answered in a minute. Many libraries 
have a “tickler file” of requests and queries that have been 
answered over the years. A surprising number of people 
request the comedy routine “Who’s on First?” so we have 
it handy for quoting or copying. Some libraries even have 
the audio cassette version available. Other questions may 
take hours, days, weeks, or months to answer. The more 
time you have, the more information can be gathered. 
2. The reason you need the information. A few times a 
month someone will approach my desk and blurt out, 
“Birds” or“Egypt” or“AIDS” and figure that the keyword 
Yellow Pages: Portable 
Reference Libraries 
Local Yellow Pages 
No reference book matches the practical currency 
of the Yellow Pages in your local telephone direc- 
tory. On any subject you can browse, call, inquire, 
ask who else would have information, and proceed 
to the heart of any matter. 
— Stewart Brand 
Manhattan Yellow Pages 
About once a year, | check out a Manhattan Yellow 
Pages from the local university library (you can 
order one for yourself for about $13 from your local 
phone company). Just about everything in the 
world is there, including useful listings not found in 
other Yellow Pages: for instance Factors. For 
example, let’s say | need 10,000 used gallon jugs 
for a solar storage unit. Someplace there is some- 
body with 10,000 used bottles to sell. The Factor 
gets us together and takes a small cut as his fee. 
If you're the man with the bottles to sell, you also 
call a Factor. 
— J. Baldwin 
International Yellow Pages 
I’m not sure how often you'll need this, but it’s 
great to know that you can find the yellow pages 
for major cities throughout the world in some large 
libraries. | looked up Pizzerias in the Rome (Italy) 
Yellow Pages. There were nearly 600 listed. | 
is enough for me to read their mind. Give us a hint. When 
someone asks, “Where are your bird books?” they really 
want to know something else. So J ask them a series of 
questions to find out what they really want: material on 
endangered condors, how to raise parakeets, or how to 
identify a hummingbird that has used a neighbor’s 
birdfeeder. We aren’t being nosy (though a good librarian 
is always curious yet discreet); we just want to focus on 
your needs and not just give you the first thing on the shelf. 
3. How technical can the material be? Some can use 
material in foreign languages; others have a good under- 
standing of the subject and don’t need introductory texts. 
4. How much you will be willing to pay for the informa- 
tion? There may be a charge for reproducing magazine 
articles, for borrowing some books or microforms, for 
requesting books that are not on the shelf, or for conduct- 
ing an online information search in your behalf. Ask what 
the library policy is, but try to gauge what your own 
financial limits are. The problem of paying for services has 
never been resolved in many public libraries. Because we 
usually refer to public libraries as “free” instead of tax- 
supported, many libraries will not provide some services 
if they have to charge. Thus, you may not be able to have 
online searches of expensive databases in those systems 
where all services are free but whose tax support is mini- 
mal. 
In short, if you can state your needs clearly, you are a lot 
more likely to get better service. We don’t think there is 
such a thing as a stupid question. 
called il Boscaiolo Pizzeria, on Via degli Artisti to 
see if they delivered... . “Click.” 
Oh, well, some- 
day | know that just what | need will be listed in 
one of these international directories, perhaps the 
Hong Kong Yellow Pages (it’s half in English). 
—Kevin Kelly 
Research Center 
Directory 
Peter D. Dresser, Editor 
1988; 1741 pp. 
$365 
($379.60 postpaid) from: 
Gale Research 
Book Tower 
Department 77748 
Detroit, Ml 48227-0748 
313/961-2242 
In your quest for inform- 
ation you are not alone. 
A hundred to one, whatever you are looking for 
has a specialist dedicated to it or its domain. Here 
are contacts to 9700 university-related and non- 
profit centers that conduct on-going research pro- 
grams on nearly everything under the sun. By and 
large, they have excellent specialized libraries and 
information specialists on hand. Without exception, 
| have found these experts anxious to share their 
fascination and love of subject. 
— Kevin Kelly 
SPECIALTY LIBRARIES 
49 
Directory of 
Special Libraries 
and Information 
Centers 
11th Edition 
Brigitte T. Darnay, Editor 
1988; 1974 pp., 2 vols. 
$350 postpaid from: 
Gale Research Company 
Book Tower 
Department 77748 
Detroit, Ml 48277-0748 
800/223-4253 
You'll find this two-volume work in larger public and 
academic libraries. It serves as a guide to more 
than 18,500 “special libraries, research libraries, 
information centers, archives, and data centers 
maintained by government agencies, business, 
industry, newspapers, educational institutions, 
nonprofit organizations, and societies” in various 
fields. Of particular interest to information junkies is 
the 80-page subject index which lists 6 sources for 
fairy tale research; 7 sites that house information 
on propaganaa; 6 libraries on terrorism. Each entry 
lists the name, address, phone, chief librarian, and 
information about the staff, subjects, size of collec- 
tion, the actual holdings, the number of subscrip- 
tions, and any special services such as reference 
service for the public — which the U.S. National 
Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration National 
Hurricane Center Library offer. Because of the 
expense few individuals will consider buying this 
work, but if you are making a telephone inquiry to 
find more information on a particular subject, ask 
the reference librarian if she or he has access to 
this work. It can save a lot of time. If there are 
numerous references, you'll do best if you search 
through it yourself. Most librarians | know don’t use 
it a great deal, but it is invaluable when you do 
need it. 
—Steve Cisler 
* 8468 * 
FLAG RESEARCH CENTER 
3 Edgehill Road 
Winchester, MA 01890 
Dr. Whitney Smith, Executive Director 
Organizational 
Notes: 
Independent 
research 
organization. Sources of 
Support: Consultant fees. Staff: 2 research professionals, 1 other. Member- 
ships: Serves as secretariat-general of International Federation of Vexillo- 
logical Associations. 
Research Activities and Fields: Vexillology, state heraldry, and sphragis- 
tics. Collects data on design and history of flags of all types, coordinates 
similar work carried on by individuals and institutions elsewhere, and 
disseminates 
this material 
through correspondence, 
publications, 
and 
consultant work. Maintains close relations with organizations and individu- 
als interested in flags and provides flag information service to governments, 
encyclopedia publishers, flag manufacturers, and others. Special Resources: 
Maintains a collection of 1,000 flags of all nations. 
Publications and Services: Research results published in books, magazines, 
flag charts, and bibliographies. Publications: Monographs; Flag Bulletin 
(bimonthly). Meetings/Educational Activities: Holds an international vexil- 
lological congress biennially, attendance by invitation. Library: 8,000 
volumes and 60,000 documents and microfilms on vexillology, heraldry, 
sphragistics, and symbology, with emphasis on developing a complete 
library on flags and flag history. 
Phone: (617) 729-9410 
Founded: 1962 
*8953*% 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
LATIN AMERICAN MUSIC CENTER 
School of Music 
Bloomington, IN 47405 
Dr. Juan A. Orrego-Salas, Director 
Organizational 
Notes: 
Integral 
unit of School 
of Music 
at Indiana 
University, but with its own board of control. Sources of Support: Parent 
institution. Staff: 2 research professionals, | graduate assistant, 1 other. 
Affiliated Centers: Archives of Traditional Music and Black Music Center 
(at the University). 
Research Activities and Fields: Folk and popular music, and art music 
repertory of Latin America, including history, composition, performance, 
and literature. 
Publications and Services: Some research results published in monographs. 
Publications: Music in Latin America (irregularly); Music in the Americas 
(irregularly). Meetings/Educational Activities: Provides instruction in Latin 
Amencan music. Holds festivals of Latin America music; periodic inter- 
American composer’s seminars; inter-American conferences on ethnomusi- 
cology. Public Services: Provides information, 
advice, 
and counseling 
services. Library: 6,500 scores and microfilms of Latin America music and 
5,000 tapes of art and traditional music; David Fenske, librarian. 
Phone: (812) 335-2991 
Founded: 1961 
