92 
RECORDER PROGRESS 
CLIPPING SERVICES 
Press Clippings 
by Richard Kadrey 
Press clipping services have been around for almost as 
long as the press itself, and like the press, they’ve had to 
change with the times. Luce and Burrelle’s, two of the 
biggest and oldest services, still call themselves “press 
clipping” companies, but both offer far more than that. 
As basic services, they use topics or key words that you 
provide to pull clips from thousands of daily newspa- 
pers, magazines, the Dow Jones News Service, AP, 
UPI, and Reuters wire services. The cost of these serv- 
ices isn’t cheap. Both companies work on three month- 
minimum contracts, with Luce starting at $179 a month, 
and Burrelle’s at $181 (Burrelle’s does have a special 
one-month contract available for $260). Besides the 
price of the service, each clip will cost you between 95 
and 97 cents. Burrelle’s has other options that can effect 
the total price: for instance, monitoring periodicals east 
or west of the Mississippi exclusively is cheaper than 
nationwide coverage; they also have special magazine- 
only, wire service-only, and Black Press-only options. 
Both companies mail clippings to you twice a week, so 
you can expect them from 10 to 14 days after publica- 
tion. Luce’s IMPACT service compiles information 
from periodicals and puts them in management reports 
that can cover any topic or region of the country, and 
can even check your publicity costs by comparing the 
ad prices on a publication-by-publication basis. 
Burtelle’s has a service called NewsExpress, which 
pulls stories from the morning editions of 24 major city 
daily newspapers, and promises to have the stories on 
your desk by 9 A.M. that same moming. 
One service that was not available in the early days of 
clipping services is video monitoring. Both Luce and 
Burrelle’s offer a variety of video information, from 
videotapes of shows and topics ($75 each from Luce in 
Beta, VHS, and U-MATIC formats) to transcripts of 
specific television shows (Burrelle’s also offers radio 
From Burrelle’s: a mention of the 
Whole Earth Review in the Recorder 
BURLINGAME, 
CA 
: 
Progess, a newspaper published in 
WEEKLY 
10,840 
Burlingame, California. 
OCT 15 1986 
BURRELLE'S 
Soviet flag in 
church photo, 
Preonre AGE 
priest sees red 
By Janet Parker Beck 
The Rev. Stefan Pavlenko is 
“seeing red” over a photograph 
Jabal 
se 
blue field with a yellow hammer 
and sickle. 
“At first, | thought it was some 
that links his Church of All 
Russian Saints in Burlingame with 
the hammer and sickle of the 
Soviet Union’s 
flag. 
While the photograph, staged 
by the Whole Earth Review 
without Pavlenko’s permission, 
apparently won’t be published, a 
similar picture taken at the 
Russian Orthodox Church 
headquarters in San Francisco will 
be, according to the magazine's 
editor. 
Pavlenko says that any picture 
associating the Russian Orthodox 
-_ 
‘ 
1 
Le ERY 
ee 
vt ow, 2S 
kind of communist demonstration 
against the church,” the 
archpriest recalled. But the 
photographer told Pavienko he 
was hired by Whole Earth Review 
to take a picture depicting the 
idea of “‘peace and love among 
people of the world. 
Pavienko was furious. It i is, he 
said, extremely detrimental to 
depict his church in the same 
context as the Soviet Union. Most 
members of the church, he said, 
have suffered in some way from 
Soviet tyranny and many of his 200 
marichoanarc fava family mamharc 
transcription services at $40 a month.). 
If you need national periodical clipping or video moni- 
toring, these are the big kids on the block. But if you 
check your local Yellow Pages, you can usually find 
local clipping services that can handle regional news 
much cheaper than either of these companies. 
Luce Press Clippings 
Information free from: Luce Press Clippings, 420 
Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10170; 800/528-8226 
Burrelle’s Press Clippings 
Information free from: Burrelle’s Press Clippings, 75 
East Northfield Road, Livingston, NJ 07039; 
201/992-6600 
Executive News Service 
Information free from: CompuServe Information Service, 
5000 Arlington Centre Boulevard, Columbus, OH 43220; 
800/848-8990 (in Ohio, 614/457-8650) 
If you use CompuServe a minimum of $10 per 
month you can sign up for their ENS, Executive 
News Service. It allows you to have “file folders” 
with key words. You then have your choice of 
news services to do the search from. | get news all 
the time about the Grateful Dead and their mem- 
bers culled from local, state and national news 
services, keyed to their names, the Dead, etc. It’s 
a neat way to just have your key words, check in a 
few times a week and download all the info. Very 
case specific. For instance, | have “Jerry Garcia” 
as one of my key words. | got back a listing of high 
school all-state football players in some state in the 
Northeast, one of which was Jerry Garcia. 
— Bernie Bildman 
Automatic Subject Citation Alert 
Information free from: ISI, 3501 Market Street, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104; 800/523-1850 
The company behind the Science Citation Index 
and Current Contents service (see page 48), the 
Institute for Scientific Information (ISI), uses cita- 
tions to provide personal information filtering. Let’s 
say you have an ongoing research project. You 
provide ISI with a list of specific papers you have 
already found to be invaluable, along with names 
of authors whose work is generally useful to you, 
as well as key words you are always on the look- 
out for. They will construct an “information profile” 
which they apply across the ceaseless river of 
scientific information surging through their comput- 
ers. Each week they mail you the abstracts or titles 
of what they caught. You can go 
hunt for the full article in a re- 
search library, or if you’re far from 
one, you can check off the papers 
you want them to send you. A 
customized service goes for about 
$225 per year. Less tailored, but 
less expensive ($195/year), are 
Example of an ISI report listing 
Author(s) 
CHAOTIC/ 
NOISE EFFECT on 
INSTABILITIES AND CHAOTIC 
cea UTLONS © 
RCONDUCTING INTERFEROMETER 
Leoni R 
eli P 
9 REFS 
PHYS R 
ma 
> CHEC 
hor 
or 
 heetich Author 
NewsNet 
Rates start at $24/hour (8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Eastern time) 
300 bps; Information from: NewsNet, Inc., 945 Haverford 
Road, Bryn Mawr, PA 19019; 800/345-1301; 
Pennsylvania 215/527-8030 
Imagine over 300 full-text newsletters combined 
with three hard news wire services delivered to 
your door step every day and you’ve got a good 
image of NewsNet. 
This is an information junkie’s 
paradise. 
This is not the place to log on and while away a 
few hours; it’s the place you go to for up-to-the- 
minute information on several hundred topics. The 
specialized newsletters often carry news stories 
well before the newspapers. 
The specialized “news clipping” service allows you 
to define 10 sets of “keywords” of particular interest 
to you; a kind of personalized electronic research 
assistant. For example, you can specify “biotech- 
nology” and anytime a new piece of information is 
stored on NewsNet, the service scans it for the 
word “biotechnology.” If that word appears any- 
where in the article, it is automatically clipped to 
your special “news flash” section. When you log 
on, it’s waiting for you to download. No hunting, no 
searching. Just open your copy buffer and save it 
to disk. 
However, if you decide you need to search through 
“old issues” of the newsletters, NewsNet allows 
you to search through all its back issues. NewsNet 
claims that 75 percent of its information is unavail- 
able anywhere else online. 
The service is expensive, but it beats toiling away 
for hours in a library, searching through the stacks, 
only to find the article you need was “clipped” by 
an unthinking individual. 
— Brock N. Meeks 
one of the 300 pre-modeled filters that will deliver 
that week’s absolute latest scientific abstracts on 
hot topics such as AIDS, superconductors, solar 
energy, Biofeedback, or artificial intelligence. They 
even offer a 90-day free trial. 
Finally, for those independent scholars working in 
remote electronic cottages, or under rapid time 
pressure, ISI offers a service which will fax a copy 
of any scientific article in the world to you within 30 
minutes of your phone request. My goodness! | 
can’t wait for the rest of the world information econ- 
omy to begin. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Title of Hem 
No. of References 
Cited by Author(s) 
Fogliet 
Ev 95(1)2 4000803 vaio 1 1987 
CLE - 
Journal Accession Number 
Joumal Volume, Issue, 
Pages, & Year of Publication 
eos 
ree fortes} 
le from 
The pele Article”) 
