At a Journal Workshop 
(The Basic Text and Guide for Using 
the Intensive Journal) 
lra Progoff 
1975; 320 pp. 
$11.95 
($15.45 postpaid) from: 
Dialogue House Library 
45 West Tenth Street 
New York, NY 10011 
212/673-5880 
or Whole Earth Access 
Progoff, a former protege of psychologist Carl 
Jung, has devised an innovative way of keeping a 
psychological journal. 
Like most Jungian psychologists, Progoff feels that 
each of us possess self-directing, self-healing 
capacities which are not always accessible to our 
day-to-day consciousness. Persons seeking to get 
in touch with these capabilities have usually re- 
quired professional guidance. The Intensive Jour- 
nal method was developed to allow people to use 
journal-writing to gain entry to those capacities. 
(Progoff and his associates also teach his journal 
method through a series of weekend and week- 
The New Diary 
(How to use a journal for 
self-guidance and 
expanded creativity) 
Tristine Rainer 
1978; 323 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Jeremy Tarcher, Inc. 
St. Martin's Press Cash Sales 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
A diary, a journal really, is less a product than a 
process. It is more verb than noun. The verb is 
secret, special, yours. The noun can be anything, 
found anywhere. Maybe it’s a three-ring binder of 
lined paper, maybe a blank sketchbook you paste 
dreams into, maybe a map you accumulate so you 
can circle a place and say “I am here.” 
| have not met a great scientist, artist, or creative 
instigator who didn’t rely on a journal or notebook 
as a fundamental tool. If schools were wise they’d 
teach this. If they were perfect they would use this 
near perfect book. 
Based on the author's 12 year study of her own 
and other people’s diaries, it’s alive and real and 
wondertul. Help eradicate duliness. Give a blank 
book and this to a friend. 
— 
Kevin Kelly 
[Suggested by Scott Kim] 
¢ 
Paul Gauguin, the painter, began his intimate journal 
with the phrase, “This is not a book.” He repeated the 
line frequently throughout the journal to remind himself 
that writing a diary is not like writing a book or any other 
form of literature. Gaugin wanted to write his diary as he 
painted his pictures, dabbing a few experimental colors 
long workshops. For information about workshops 
in your area, write to the address above.). 
My own experiences with the exercises were deep 
and surprising. When people asked Anais Nin how 
to keep a diary, she referred them to this book. 
—Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
o 
Because time has passed them by, we assume that the 
choices we rejected or waived are now dead, and that 
there is no longer any potentiality in them. We have, on 
the other hand, many indications that projects which we 
planned but could not carry through at an early point in 
our life became ripe for fulfillment at a later time. As the 
author of The Cloud of Unknowing states it, “We grow by 
delays,” and for this reason the later expressions of our 
plans are often more productive and meaningful than 
they could possibly have been at the earlier time. 
@ 
We remain in the quietness with our eyes closed, now 
progressively feeling the presence of a person, a being 
who personifies the inner continuity of the life of our 
body. We feel the presence of the person within the 
process of our physical life, and we speak to it. We greet 
it as a person. We address it, saying what comes to us 
to be spoken. Whatever we say, we write in the Journal. 
Morte 
; 
Ys 
; 
Mon hark bbb wtlt beiblr gh guetta chart ds 
dew ~ 
Ane 
the 
oko ome 
Lene ct. 
1S. 
Fa pee Ten Menor 
a 
ileal 
gree 
hae 
Se = 
td, gore Org 5 
Mike Lat phe the 
SSA 
4 a “sed Jam ti te 
wd f Aah 
, 
uray el 
? 
Some diarists write in different directions over the page. They treat 
the page as free space that can be divided in innumerable ways, not 
simply with imaginary lines that run from left to right and top to 
bottom. 
at first, adding more as his intuition told him, following 
his fancy, “following the moon,” discovering the pattern 
from what had occurred by chance. 
a 
When asked how to write a diary by those just begin- 
ning, | generally respond: “Write fast, write everything, 
include everything, write from your feelings, write from 
your body, accept whatever comes.” That is often all the 
guidance they need. 
4 
JOURNALS 37 
Diarist’s Journal 
$2 from 102 W. Water St., Lansford, PA 18232 
Would you believe something new under the sun? 
This is solely devoted to diaries, new and old, 
published and unpublished, and primarily consists 
of diary excerpts. These brief glimpses into other 
lives are mainly fascinating and certainly never 
boring. There are also reviews of a few books on 
diary-writing and some thoughts on the genre. 
Open to submissions from any diarist. 
—Mike Gunderloy 
FACTSHEET FIVE (see p. 40) 
PEER 
hy the Swim 
< 
Cee 
hong b sof 
1 Re 
Aik 
: Lr/ 
5° 
It requires no artistic talent to make maps of consciousness. They 
can be stick figures or shapeless blobs. Their purpose is your own 
enjoyment and self-awareness, not accuracy or beauty. Sometimes 
when | am particularly confused | draw a map of all my conflicting 
parts. Often friends and family members will appear, my work, my 
ambitions, the house | live in or wish to live in. | try to put them on the 
page to represent graphically my relative psychic distance to each 
element and their relationship to each other in my mind. 
ee 
¢ 
Some people use catharsis so skillfully that they have 
made an art of it. After all, great literature has often 
served as a purgation for the writer. Most of us, though, 
just have to get it out in raw, primitive form. If you dump 
anger, greed, lust, and grief into your diary remember 
that the diary isn’t you — it's all the things you've purged 
yourself of for your own well-being. 
The physical energy that sometimes goes into cathartic writing is itself a release of emotion for the diarist. 
