166 COMPUTER TOOLBOX 
Ten Paths to Computer 
Purchases 
by Art Kleiner 
HE NEWS ABOUT personal computers 
begins with shopping news. For between 
$1,500 and $2,500, including software, you can 
buy an “XT Clone” or “AT Clone” — imita- 
tions of IBM computers which provide many — but far 
from all — of the clerical; creative, and communicative 
tools that a personal computer can offer. You can use 
such a clone to automate the drudgery of routine clerical 
work; to manipulate the fine-grained grids of probabili- 
ties and statistics; to write in a facile, intuitively correct 
way; and to seek out computer-based information and 
textual conversations on a broad variety of topics 
through the phone lines. But you can’t use this sort of 
clone without devoting a few months to learning its 
arcane peculiarities, and it can’t (without difficulty) deal 
with such niceties as typefaces and graphics. 
To get a more “intuitively correct” system that meets 
you halfway, you'll need between $2,500 and $3,500; 
that gets you a Macintosh, with the ability to manipulate 
sounds and black-and-white images, and investigate the 
burgeoning arena of “information navigating” via 
Apple’s HyperCard program. For $5,000 or more, you 
can “desktop publish.” In other words, you can produce 
publishable-quality page layouts and typesetting on your 
own laser printer, which is a photocopier body con- 
trolled by a computer brain. Beyond $6,000 and you’re 
in the realm of intensely fast, intensely capable personal 
computers that can store, say, complexly interwoven 
data banks of text, numbers, and pictures, which even 
room-sized computers couldn’t have handled a 
decade ago. 
But no matter what you use them for, at root personal 
computers are tools for understanding the self. Even the 
most straightforwardly businesslike program conducts 
you into a miniature world, which is not physically real, 
but which you often experience as if it were. A word 
processor, for instance, starts as someone’s idealized 
idea of a typewriter, but eventually becomes what com- 
puter people call a “virtual” typewriting universe — 
with extra capabilities that couldn’t exist in the real 
world, and hidden shortcuts that you continue learning 
about long after you begin using it. “Playing” the word 
processor effectively, and customizing it to your own 
taste, is often a matter of figuring out the right strategies 
within the oh-so-complex, but nonetheless finite and 
controllable, rules of the game. 
Apple’s Macintosh family of computers has lately 
gained enough popularity (among corporations, at least, 
which are the largest and thus most influential computer 
purchasers) to inspire a host of new software and 
add-ons. Apple itself keeps upgrading and improving 
its computer line; most recently with an operating sys- 
tem called MultiFinder which allows you to work in 
several programs at once, switching back and forth 
between them. 
Then there’s the advent of laser printers, which raised 
many people’s standards of what a computer-printed 
page should look like (this page was made on a laser 
printer), and of compact disks feeding into computers 
(called CD-ROMs in the trade), which may make pos- 
sible the decades-old dream of keeping an entire library 
in a shoebox. 
Macintoshes are easier than most other computers to 
learn to use, but even on the Mac, data management and 
desktop publishing are prodigious endeavors. As for 
IBM, it is indeed easy to send electronic mail on their 
new computers, as long as someone has already set up 
the system for you. Lord help the novices who set it up 
for themselves. 
Even if you don’t give your life over to learning to use a 
computer, it will change your life irrevocably. Here, 
organized along paths for different people and different 
uses, are the tools for making sure that those changes 
happen the way you want them to. 
Path #1: For independent work (writing, small-scale 
organizing, telecommunicating, research, etc.) at mini- 
mum cost: XT Clone with hard disk. 
The XT “clone” is the Gallo wine of computers. Its 
major advantages: low cost and high adaptability. So 
many people own the things that there’s a wide range of 
available software and accessories that work together. 
(This is also true of the far-less-capable Apple II and 
Commodore 64 computers.) 
The clone’s main disadvantage is its operating system, 
MS-DOS; it’s too hard to learn and use, much too hard 
to set up, too prone to crisis points where different 
programs don’t work together and freeze the machine, 
and too easy to make typing errors that destroy 
your work. 
Several hundred manufacturers — including Compaq, 
Tandy, Leading Edge, and Hyundai — make XT clones, 
but there is no need to buy a brand-name computer 
unless you get a good deal. The best approach is to find, 
by word of mouth, a local computer retailer who is 
trustworthy and offers good prices. Shop locally; com- 
puter chips and disk drives often develop flaws, and 
local dealers are quicker to reach (and often more 
responsible). 
Buying a clone means confronting an overwhelming 
array of choices. I recommend 640 kilobytes (“640K”) 
of “Random Access Memory (RAM)’ — the 
computer’s internal “attention span” for programs and 
documents that it is working on at the moment. You 
should also have a built-in clock, printer (“‘parallel’”’) 
port, communications (“serial”) port, and at least one 
20-megabyte (or larger) hard disk drive, for storing 
programs and documents. 
Path #2: For the same kind of independent work (writing, 
small-scale organizing, telecommunicating, research, 
etc.) without having to think too much about the 
computer, or for anyone who needs black-and-white 
graphics, at minimum cost: Macintosh SE with built-in 
hard disk and Imagewriter. 
The Mac operating system employs a “desktop” meta- 
phor where every program and document is represented 
by a small image (an “icon’’) superimposed on a rec- 
tangle (the ““desk’’). You use the mouse (it comes with 
the Mac), to point at different parts of the screen, to 
click on different onscreen “buttons” with commands 
attached, and to grab hold of an onscreen image and 
move it somewhere else. To delete a file, for instance, 
you don’t type DELETE; you grab its onscreen icon and 
move it over to a little picture of a trashcan. 
Even the Mac’s floppy disks are better. Small enough to 
fit in a shirt pocket and encased in a plastic covering, 
they’re far less fragile and hold more than twice as 
much as an IBM floppy. 
But consistency is the real Macintosh boon. No matter 
what type of program you use, you know that its menus 
will appear at the top of the screen, and that the first 
menu, invariably marked File, will open and close 
documents. Moving text from one part of a document to 
another works the same way in nearly every program. 
Desk accessories, which conflict chaotically on XTs, 
work together on the Mac. Even printers, the traditional 
gremlin of compatibility, fall into line; if one program 
works with a printer, so does every program. Thus, not 
only are most Mac programs easier to learn, but Mac 
users avoid most of the setup hassles endemic to 
XT clones. 
Is all this worth the extra $1000 or so to get equivalent 
computing power on a Mac? If you use black-and-white 
graphics regularly, at this moment you have no choice: 
graphics programs exist for XTs and ATs, but they 
either require thousands of dollars worth of special 
hardware, or dozens of hours of special setup. If you’re 
new to personal computing, or employ novices, you 
could save $1000 in training and setup costs (though not 
for Desktop Publishing or Data Base Management). 
Macs also have a more intangible appeal: they represent 
the future. Interesting new software seems to show up 
there first. 
Path #3: For independent work (particularly writing and 
number-shuffling) with high-quality printing: XT Clone 
with hard disk and HP-compatible laser printer. 
Unlike the abominable “tractor feeds” of regular print- 
ers, laser printers feed paper like photocopiers; you 
dunk a bunch of paper in a paper tray and the printer 
handles it. But the main difference is the text of your 
printed page. It’s as readable as the page of a book, far 
more readable than even the best typewriter. 
This path contains everything in path #1 except the need 
for a superior word processor. Only a few writing pro- 
grams can master the niceties of laser printing. Those 
that do include MICROSOFT WORD (if you like using 
a mouse) and XYWRITE III (if you telecommunicate 
your text as well as laser-print it). 
