How to Get 
Free Software 
Alfred Glossbrenner 
1984; 432 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
Attn.: Cash Sales 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
212/674-5151 
or Whole Earth Access 
No one we know of has a more comprehensive 
knowledge of software then Alfred Glossbrenner. 
His book, How to Get Free Software, has chapter 
and verse on the subject. The major problem with 
public domain programs is finding out about them 
and finding where to get them. He takes care of 
both. 
(The minor problems are dealing with the sheer 
volume of choices and working without manuals.) 
—Stewart Brand 
Sd 
Some of the free software available for nearly every 
machine is unquestionably of professional quality and 
can more than hold its own with any commercial product 
in the same category. 
Admittedly, this runs contrary to everything one would 
assume about a high quality product: “If the stuff's so 
good, why didn’t the author try to sell it?” In point of fact, 
some of them have. More than a few free programs 
started out as commercial products. But many more of 
_ them were written by computer professionals or skilled 
hobbyists in their spare time. For philosophical reasons, 
or simply because they did not want the hassle of “going 
commercial,” many of these individuals have contributed 
their work to the public domain instead. 
4 
Indeed, if you are interested in programming, free soft- 
ware can provide a wonderful learning experience. 
Unlike most commercial software, the vast majority of 
public domain programs are “listable.” That means you 
can print out and review the program itself and see how 
its author accomplished (or failed to accomplish) a 
particular goal. This can alert you to interesting tech- 
niques or save you from making similar mistakes. And in 
some cases it can teach you more about BASIC, Pascal, 
assembler, and other languages than many 
textbooks can. 
e 
Once you get “plugged in,” you'll discover that there is 
an informal network of users groups across the conti- 
nent. Many groups regularly exchange newsletters and 
information, and many share their member-contributed 
free software. 
In almost all users groups there will be a “software 
librarian” who has taken the responsibility for organizing, 
building, and maintaining the group's free software 
collection. Frequently, the librarian and assisting mem- 
bers will bring the entire library to the group’s monthly 
meeting. And either before, after, or during the meeting, 
members will be free to pick up any programs they want. 
If you bring your own blank disks, there will usually be a 
copying charge of about $1 to help maintain the library. 
But often a club will be able to provide you with a disk at 
a discounted price. (If you do bring your own floppies, try 
to format them beforehand.) 
The PC-SIG Library 
(Public Domain and User-Supported Software for the 
IBM-PC, PCjr, and Compatibles.) 1987; 424 pp., $12.95 
($16.95 postpaid) from PC-SIG, Inc., 1030 East Duane 
Avenue, Suite D, Sunnyvale, CA 94086; 800/245-6717 
(800/222-2996 in CA) or Whole Earth Access 
The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM 
IBM PC/XT/AT or compatible computer and CD-ROM 
player with Microsoft MS-DOS extensions. $295 ($300 
postpaid) from PC-SIG, Inc., 1030 East Duane Avenue, 
Suite D, Sunnyvale, CA 94086; 408/730-9291 
For years PC-SIG, largest shareware vendor in the 
known universe, has published The PC-SIG Li- 
brary, a catalog of hundreds of IBM-PC programs 
to be had for free or for a “suggested donation” to 
the program’s author. The 750 programs reviewed 
in the latest edition are available directly from PC- 
SIG, Inc. (order forms are printed in the back of the 
book). Or you can skip this step and get thousands 
The entire PG-SIG library to date of public domain and user-sup- 
ported programs is now on CD-ROM. 
User Groups 
One of the best ways to get your hands on share- 
ware is to find other people who use your type of 
computer. User groups often have shareware 
libraries for members to browse through. To find 
out about user groups in your area, you can call 
800/538-9696 for Apple or Macintosh computers; 
800/IBM-3333 for IBM PCs; and 408/745-2367 or 
408/745-5759 if you have an Atari. 
Even if the nearest user group is too far away 
for 
regular visits, some groups offer shareware by 
mail. The Berkeley Macintosh User Group main- 
tains a fine collection of Mac shareware for mem- 
bers near or far. Or you can join The Boston Com- 
puter Society, which has shareware compatible 
with many computer types — Mac, Apple, IBM PC, 
Atari, Amiga, CP/M. 
Berkeley Macintosh User Group: Membership $40/ 
year. 1442A Walnut Street, #62, Berkeley, CA 94709; 
415/849-BMUG. 
The Boston Computer Society: Membership $35/year. 
One Center Plaza, Boston, MA 02108; 617/367-8080. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
SHAREWARE 
of shareware and public domain programs on The 
PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
a 
Is it Shareware, User-Supported or Public Domain? 
Public domain software is created by authors who 
choose not to seek formal rights or royalties. Such work 
is free to be used by all with few or no restrictions. 
This type of software can be found on the numerous 
electronic Bulletin Boards around the country and in the 
PC-SIG library. 
Shareware and User-Supported software paint a slightly 
different picture. Some of these programs are copy- 
righted, some are not... 
. You are purchasing your 
software directly from the author, thereby eliminating 
costly marketing, promotion and packaging — allowing 
you to obtain sophisticated software at a fraction of the 
cost. 
—The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM User Manual 
Shareware 
Magazine 
M. Palmer Barnes, Editor 
$20/year 
(6 issues) from: 
PC-SIG, Inc. 
1030 East Duane Avenue 
Suite D 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 
800/245-6717 
or 800/222-2996 (in CA) 
This magazine reviews new shareware/public 
domain/user-supported programs and reports on 
the shareware industry. Use it to update The PC- 
SIG Library. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
4 
A number of software companies and individual pro- 
grammers have been marketing PC versions of the 
popular MONOPOLY® game, claiming that the game is 
public domain. 
Parker Brothers wants to set 
the record straight. The 
MONOPOLY® game, 
including board 
graphics, instruc- 
tions, playing 
cards, Title 
Deed cards, 
and all other 
distinctive 
elements of 
the MO- 
NOPOLY® 
game are 
fully pro- 
tected under the Federal Copyright Act and the Federal 
Trademark Act.... 
© 1936 PARKER BROTHERS, INC. 
Parker Brothers has licensed the MONOPOLY® prop- 
erty to Sega for the Sega Master Systems and Virgin 
Games for home computers. 
Other than these two licensees, none of the software 
versions of MONOPOLY® now on the market have been 
authorized by Parker Brothers. 
169 
