92 LOW-POWER BROADCAST 
Non-commercial 
FM and Low-power 
Television 
by Lorenzo W. Milam 
The most inexpensive way to become a broadcaster is to 
put anoncommercial FM station on the air. This will only 
work if you are out in the boondocks (at least 150 miles 
from the nearest major city). It might cost you $10,000 to 
begin broadcasting, but it will be less if you are smart, 
careful, patient, wily, and know how tosteal FM transmit- 
ters under cover of darkness. Make contact with the 
National Federation of Community Broadcasters at 1314 
14th Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20005; 202/797-8911. 
They will give you a step-by-step on how to apply for such 
a station. You will need an engineer, a nonprofit corpora- 
tion, a transmitter site, a frequency, and lots of time. 
In 1980, the FCC opened the door for “low power” 
television station (LPTV) applications. The rules permit- 
ted new television stations inmost markets. The Commis- 
sion was deluged with applications, and has only recently 
cleared away most of them. Periodically, they open doors 
— called, naturally, “windows” — for further applica- 
tions. These are announced in the trade magazines like 
Broadcasting (whichis too expensive to subscribe to, but 
which you can find at your local public or university 
library). 
Channel 2-13 (VHF) LPTV 
is really low power (ten watts 
maximum, which might not carry more than half a mile). 
For UHF (Channels 14-69), you are allowed transmitter 
output power up to 1,000 watts. With a clever antenna 
system, and multiple transmitters, you might be able to 
cover a fairly major service area. 
The VHS stations are cheap, but the UHF transmitters can 
cost at least $25,000, and the antennas another $10,000. 
The rules on the programming and operation are quite lax 
— the FCC gives you enormous latitude on what you can 
program. 
(We thought of getting an LPTV station on the air, running 
continuous slides of the kid’s birthday party from last 
summer, footage from NASA [all space shots are public 
domain], and home movies collected from all the neigh- 
bors. We’d play some bizarre and wonderful music on the 
sound channel— gagaku from Japan, Balkan folk singing, 
songs of Henry Purcell, Blind Lemon Jefferson. What a 
way to spend an evening, no? Launching into space with 
the Monkey Chant, landing on the moon to “Sound of the 
Trumpets,” walking on the Mare Incognito with “The A- 
to-Z Blues.” Under the LPTV programming rules of the 
FCC, it’s all legal.) 
WhatI have told you about Low Power Television is worth 
amere pickle. The real kicker is how you can get close to 
going on the air with little or no effort on your part: 
Because of the first application rush, the FCC was forced 
to setup alottery system so they could process them all. In 
the last three years, the Commission has made over 4,000 
grants of LPTY stations all over the country, including 
Hr Gaw Awrenw 
Naaeow 
Bean Ous 
Mucu 
OF Cc 
Lo-Power 
Community TV 
Harlan L. Jacobsen, Editor 
$50/year 
(12 issues) from: 
Lo-Power Community 
Television Publishing 
7432 West Diamond 
Scottsdale, AZ 85257 
602/945-6746 
Editor Harlan Jacobsen appears to be a sort of 
populist hero in low-power TV circles. His no-frills 
magazine is a good source of detailed, practical 
advice on running a low-power TV station. Sample 
copies are $5. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, 
and Micronesia. However, many of the people who got 
permits aren’t building. There areno more than 250 LPT V 
stations on the air right now. 
The commission doesn’t take kindly to grantees who hold 
onto the permits and never build. Unless they have very 
good excuses, they are forced to surrender them a year 
from the date of the grant. This can be a bonanza for you. 
What you have to do is to find out what permits have been 
granted for your area, or the city or cities you’re interested 
in. From this information, you can make contact with the 
permit holders. If they have lost their permit, you can 
perhaps pick up the transmitter site option, and file your 
own application, using some of the information from their 
(successful) application. If they still have the permit, but 
are running into difficulties building the station, youmight 
be able to negotiate with them. In retum for your helping 
to get the station on the air, you might be able to share the 
ownership. At worst, youcan leam a great deal by talking 
with the people involved, and reading over the applica- 
tions that have been filed, gone onto lottery, and been 
granted. Even those that have lost out will teach you what 
is available in the way of equipment and sites. This is basic 
FCC form school; how to put an application in the hopper 
and (perhaps) how to win. 
(To doall this, youneed a copying service in Washington, 
D.C. that specializes in FCC Releases. A good one is 
Berry’s Best, 1705 DeSales Street NW, Washington, D.C. 
20036; 202/293-4964. You can hire them to dig up any 
RsHooTs 
ITY Porut ATION 
Low Gain 
AwTENNA 
Wioer Bean Wore 
Purs More SIGNAL Into 
NearBy Ground 
AREA 
¢ 
Recently | read an article in a TV engineering magazine 
about a full power UHF station that increased their 
number of viewers and improved their rating 
considerably by going to a low gain antenna from a high 
gain antenna. 
They noted that the theoretical power in the fringes 
would be way lower, but noted they lost very few viewers 
in the outlying areas. 
The theory behind this is that the high gain antenna has 
such a narrow beam width that the 80% of their viewers, 
who were nearby in town, were being overshot in order 
to put a higher power signal out in the country. With the 
low gain antenna and wider beam width, they were 
putting more of the signal in the ground nearby. 
The LPTV Report 
Jacquelyn Biel, Editor 
$25/year 
(12 issues) from: 
LPTV Report 
P.O. Box 25510 
Milwaukee, WI 53225-0510 
414/781-0188 
Slicker than Lo-Power Community TV, this 
magazine, “the official information channel of the 
Community Broadcasters Association,” will give 
you the legal and business angles on low-power 
TV, as well as some technical insights. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
¢ 
In the rush to apply for LPTV permits, some early 
applications were not engineered very well, the thought 
being that they could be easily modified after grant. Also, 
sites that were available four years ago may no longer 
be available. Thus, some new CP holders are finding 
that they need to locate a new antenna site. ... The new 
site must be very close to the old one, and the new 
proposal must not serve any people that the old one 
didn’t. This usually means that you'll need a new site 
that is less than a mile away from the old one. 
filing at the FCC that you might want to see. I would ask 
for copies of the winners’ names from the last two years’ 
worth of lotteries.) 
|
