190 
by Salli Raspberry 
jae ee is offensive, expensive, and takes 
advantage of the vulnerable members of our society. 
Advertising in America is more intrusive than in any 
other industrialized country. Yet, in spite of the fact that 
most Americans are exposed to an estimated 1,000 ad- 
vertising messages every day, the majority of us are 
hardly influenced, at least not in the sense that it induces 
us to buy anything. 
Advertising as a means to sell a product or service is 
simply not effective. People know that advertising is 
propaganda and don’t trust it, nor do they remember it. 
According to market research studies, only 9 percent of 
television viewers can name the brand or even the 
product category they saw advertised a moment before. 
If we as consumers have personal experience and a 
network of friends and relatives whom we can trust to 
Advertising Pure 
and Simple 
Hank Seiden 
1976; 197 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
American Management 
Association 
P.O. Box 1026 
Saranac Lake, NY 12983 
518/891-1500 
or Whole Earth Access 
polio MLB RE 
foe and Simple 
Hork Seiiex 
First, read “Advertising Doesn’t Work.” Then, if you 
decide you still must write ads for your own small 
business, start here. Written by “one of the few ad 
men who enjoys helping young people get started 
in advertising,” this is also recommended for 
people seeking jobs as copywriters. Author Hank 
Seiden began his ad career before television, and 
implies that advertising should have stayed there. 
That print-oriented approach makes this a good 
book for learning how to persuade in writing with 
taste and skill. Seiden pretty much leaves the 
ethnical dilemmas for you to resolve for yourself, 
except for two: he says cigarette and liquor 
ADVERTISING 
Macy's ad found in the San Francisco Chronicle. 
[Right.] This is no joke. Nearly all surveys on why people buy a 
particular product show advertising has much less influence than 
does word of mouth. 
recommend products and services, this is most likely to 
influence us. When survey research studies of the final 
sales influence are conducted, rarely is advertising 
credited by the survey respondents as a reason for 
choosing a product or service. 
We seem politically and morally blind to the fact that so 
many ads are dishonest. The victims of this self-serving 
industry are children, the economically poor, tourists, 
the elderly, and the educationally disadvantaged. Pre- 
school children, for instance, have not yet learned to be 
defensive and wary of commercials as have their older 
siblings and cannot distinguish between television 
programming and advertisements. 
This is not to imply that the majority of advertising 
agencies or their employees are evil and calculating, 
attempting to make our lives miserable for a profit. Ad 
agencies exist to serve their clients and are extremely 
vulnerable to their every whim. There is little loyalty in 
this industry. And we, the buying public, are equally 
guilty, as to a large extent we use advertisers to support 
our media. Regardless of how tasteless an ad or how 
corrupt the business supporting that ad might be, by our 
silence we give them the power over our media. 
Those of us who would prefer to use our dollars wisely 
might consider more actively supporting public 
television and radio as well as journals and general- 
interest magazines without advertising. They can stay 
in business only if their community wants the informa- 
tion they have to offer badly enough to pay for it. 
companies should be allowed to advertise on 
television, but political candidates should not. 
If you like to read advertising “confessions” 
by 
insiders (as | do), the annotated bibliography is 
worth the price of this book. 
—Art Kleiner 
¢ 
The first step, when creating any ad or commercial, is 
the most critical: Jot down, as two guidepoints, what 
you're trying to say and the audience you're trying to say 
it to. If you can’t compose one or at most two sentences 
summing up the key point of your ad, then you're simply 
not going to be an ad writer. Go to bartender school. 
At one time all commercial tuna fish was pink. A new 
company came on the scene with a white tuna — a 
tremendous disadvantage, wouldn't you say? — ina 
market used to pink tuna. The white tuna people didn’t 
think so, and advertised their tuna as guaranteed not to 
turn pink, thereby implying that something was wrong 
with pink tuna. They made all the other guys see red. 
How's that for turning a disadvantage into an advan- 
tage? They did it so well that all tuna marketed since 
then is white. 
Friends 487 
Relatives 17% 
Advertising. 5% 
! Other - 30°, 
How people first heard about Baileys. 
the figures are true. Nearly everyone who discovers |. 
Baileys tells someone else about it. And with just one deliciolls Sip, 
you'll understand this irresistable urge to share it. 
Isn't ae something special what love Is all about? 
| 
Baileys? To know it Is tolove it. 
fs Fett ts 
The Om 
Cs go Crrpetaied MON UEP 
ete Inks, 
Advertising, The 
Uneasy Persuasion 
(Its Dubious Impact on 
American Society) 
Michael Schudson 
1984, 1986; 288 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Basic Books 
10 East 53rd Street 
New York, NY 10022 
800/242-7737 
or Whole Earth Access 
Many people passionately hate advertising and 
marketing, without really knowing why. They 
should read Advertising, The Uneasy Persua- 
sion. It subtly debunks all the foofaraw about 
advertisers as conspiratorial manipulators of the 
public — and then it tells what’s really going on: 
“Advertising is capitalism’s way of saying ‘I love 
you’ to itself.” No wonder advertising feels so icky 
to those of us who aren't similarly infatuated. 
—Art Kleiner 
Sd 
To the extent that there is an answer to the problem of 
whether, in the aggregate, advertising causes sales, the 
answer seems to be no, sales cause advertising. And 
business practice ensures that this will be so. Field 
experiments varying the amount of advertising and 
measuring the results on sales have been relatively rare. 
Especially rare are experiments that dare to ower 
advertising expenditures below current rates. Ina 
number of these cases, including a celebrated set of 
experiments at Anheuser-Busch for Budweiser beer, 
reducing advertising expenses actually led to increases 
in sales. It is very likely that many firms spend more on 
advertising than, for their own best interests, they 
should. 
