Singing 
(The Mechanism and 
the Technic) 
William Vennard 
1949, 1967 rev.; 275 pp. 
$25 
($27 postpaid) from: 
Carl Fischer, Inc. 
Carl Fischer of Chicago 
312 S. Wabash Avenue 
Chicago, IL 60604 
1-800-621-4496 
1-800-572-3272 in Illinois 
or Whole Earth Access 
Unusually comprehensive analysis and demonstra- 
tion of the voice as an instrument. If you want to 
know how and why you sound as you do and don’t 
mind somewhat technical explanations, Vennard is 
excellent. He includes detailed exercises on all the 
traditional subjects from breathing to articulation— 
to give one example, the chapter on Resonance 
tells you where and how to place your larynx, 
tongue, palate, jaw, lips and teeth (wow!). 
—Arlene Sagan 
5 
The little pockets between the false and the true cords 
have fascinated many thinkers on the subject of voice. In 
howling monkeys, there are pouches connected with the 
Ventriloquism for 
Fun and Profit 
Paul Winchell 
1954; 190 pp. 
$3.98 
($5.49 postpaid) from: 
Hollywood Magic Shop 
6614 Hollywood Boulevard 
Hollywood, CA 90028 
213/464-5610 
Before Paul Winchell became the successful in- 
ventor of the artificial heart valve, he was very 
successful in a more “noble” profession — ventrilo- 
quism. Here Winchell explores every facet of this 
entertaining craft. He explains in detail how to 
create the ventriloquial voice through proper lip 
and mouth control as well as how to make and 
manipulate a dummy. (Pop quiz: what’s the name 
of Winchell’s wooden pal?) There’s a section on 
performing in public, including several routines. 
tank” 
tedium 
pitch 
tera ng” 
Masigm pitch 
Ill, third cervical vertebra. In "twang" openings to mouth and throat 
appear equal, throat larger in diameter. In "honk" larynx is lower, but 
opening to mouth is almost closed. 
ventricles which can be inflated with the breath, and 
when this impounded air is then forced back out it pro- 
duces a sound. Vestiges of such pouches are found in 
some humans, and although no one has demonstrated 
any correlation between their presence and vocal talent, 
it is tempting to imagine them as resonators, (Kay). 
¢ 
Long ago, Pythagoras, the famous mathematician, 
discovered that if one doubles the number of vibrations 
per second, the pitch is raised by the interval which we 
call an octave. He sounded a taut string, and then di- 
vided it in two, which raised the pitch an octave because 
it multiplied the frequency by two. Pythagoras used a 
string to demonstrate the principle, but, since the voice is 
a wind instrument, | should like to put it in terms of the 
Most material you'll find in magic shops or book 
stores on ventriloquism are just pamphlets of 20 
pages or so. This is by far the most comprehensive 
book I’ve seen and makes learning how fairly easy. 
(I tried it in a law class last week — the professor 
thought Duffy, a student who sits five seats down 
from me, had woken up and spoken for the first 
time all semester.) 
—Paul Chandler 
¢ 
Ventriloquism is only an illusion; it's the art of using our 
keen sense of sight to deceive our often inaccurate 
sense of hearing. 
5 
Close your jaw keeping the lips slightly apart, and the 
teeth touching lightly together. At no time let the teeth 
separate. This is vital to the illusion. 
¢ 
You shouldn't have much trouble making the sound of 
“w” without moving your lips. But if you should have any 
trouble, just say the sound of “oo,” as in moon, instead of 
the “w” sound. In that way “oo-air” would be where; “oo- 
ott” would be what; “oo-eye” would be why; and “oo-en” 
would be when. 
¢ 
When you get into dialogue — with you and the dummy 
alternately doing the talking — you run smack into the 
first big mental problem confronting the ventriloquist. 
You are no longer one person. You are now two sepa- 
rate and distinct individuals and personalities. And you 
now have to think and act for two people. 
a. Route taken by string from mouth through the pole. b. Drill hole in 
pole for string. c. Make trough for eyes string. 
VOICING 
siren. Anyone can construct a simple 
siren by attaching a cardboard wheel to 
a motor and blowing air at it through a 
rubber tube. Make a series of ten holes 
at a given radius, and a series of only 
five in a smaller circle. When you blow 
through the five-series you will hear one 
pitch, and when you blow through the 
other you will hear a tone an octave 
higher, or with twice the frequency. 
Diction 
John Moriarty 
1975; 263 pp. 
$16.00 postpaid from: 
E.C. Schirmer Music 
Company, Inc. 
138 Ipswich Street 
Boston, MA 02215 
1-800-777-1919 
or Whole Earth Access 
Have you ever tried to pronounce a French “u” or 
perhaps even more difficult, knowing how so well, 
be unable to successfully demonstrate? If so, 
Moriarty is your guide to French, German, Italian 
and Latin, especially if you are an American who 
‘practices bad diction in nearly every utterance.” 
He tells you how to shape lips, tongue and jaw and 
includes plenty of very helpful examples and his- 
torical parallels. It may be ostensibly for singers but 
it’s a vade mecum for any budding polyglot. 
—Arlene Sagan 
¢ 
In English there are at least two sounds for the letter I. 
When it occurs before a vowel, we usually pronounce it 
with the tongue quite relaxed, the tip of the tongue 
against the hard gum ridge, the sides of the tongue 
turned down slightly to allow air to pass laterally. To test 
this, notice the position of the tongue as you are about to 
say liquid. 
Now say all, and you will see that for a final | (and also 
for | before a consonant, as in milk), the tongue has 
quite a different position, and the | has a much darker 
sound. The tip of the tongue is still against the gum 
ridge, but now there is a deep depression down the 
center of the tongue, which is arched toward the back of 
the mouth. The root of the tongue is depressed. 
o 
[r] is the symbol for the flipped r. American r is never 
used in Italian, French or German. 
Sometimes Americans have difficulty in learning to flip or 
roll an r. There have been several ways suggested, such 
as trying to imitate a doorbell or a motorboat. 
Italian words which have r occurring before a consonant 
will need a 
115 
double flip. 
This takes 
more breath 
High 
pressure. 
Mixed 
Chart of Italian 
vowels, show- 
ing relative 
height, round- 
ness, opening 
and closure. 
Low 
Round 
Open 
