202 SOCIETIES OF MIND 
The Society 
of Mind 
Marvin Minsky 
1986; 339 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Simon & Schuster 
1230 Avenue of the 
Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
201/767-5937 
or Whole Earth Access 
This seminal work from the foremost pioneer in 
artificial intelligence is a metalogue on the mind. (A 
metalogue is a message whose form is echoed by 
its content — a conversation about conversations, 
for example). Minsky’s landmark book is about, 
and at the same time is, a community of thoughts 
on thinking. 
His thesis, that the mind is a muddling bureaucracy 
composed of different departments of calculation, 
from dumb machine logic to elegant conscious- 
ness, has become the most workable metaphor for 
cognition research. Taken as a whole, there is 
nothing that penetrates the zen of mind as boldly 
as this society of witty ideas does. 
— Kevin Kelly 
The Minds of Billy Milligan 
Daniel Keyes 
1982; 443 pp. 
$4.50 
($6.50 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
800/323-9872 
or Whole Earth Access 
Sometimes you can’t understand how something 
works until it’s broken; the repair process then 
becomes a time to explore the constituent parts of 
the system, trying to figure out how they all go 
together. When Billy Milligan’s mind broke it came 
apart in twenty-four separate pieces, or personali- 
ties. His personas ranged in ages from three to 
twenty-three, were male and female (one was a 
lesbian), had different IQs, spoke with different 
accents (one was fluent in Arabic), behaved with 
different mannerisms, and even looked different. 
This is the true story of how Billy came to know 
and understand the hidden parts of his own mind, 
how his lawyers and doctors fought to keep him in 
a safe environment within the Ohio State medical 
system, and how he became the first person 
in U.S. history to be judged not guilty of 
felonies because he was found to have multiple 
personalities. 
— Richard Kadrey 
o 
In her testing, Dorothy Turner discovered significant IQ 
variation among the different personalities: Allen, 120; 
Ragen 119; David, 69; Danny, 71; Tommy, 87; and 
Christopher, 102. Christene was too young to be tested, 
Andalana would not come out and Arthur declined to 
take the IQ portion of the tests, saying it was beneath his 
dignity. 
B-BRAIN 
There is one way for a mind to watch itself and still keep track of 
what's happening. Divide the brain into two parts, A and B. Connect 
the A-brain’s inputs and outputs to the real world — so it can sense 
what happens there. But don’t connect the B-brain to the outer world 
at all; instead connect it so that the A-brain is the B-brain’s world! 
Now A can see and act upon what happens in the outside world — 
while B can “see” and influence what happens insides. 
A 
Minds are simply what brains do. 
S 
Why can’t we grow by steady, smooth development? 
I'll argue that nothing so complex as a human mind can 
grow, except in separate steps. One reason is that it is 
always dangerous to change a system that already 
works. Suppose you discover a new idea or way to think 
that seems useful enough to justify building more skills 
that depend on it. What happens if, later, it should turn 
out that this idea has a serious flaw? How would you 
restore your previous abilities? One way might be to 
maintain such complete records that you could “undo” all 
the changes that were made — but that wouldn't work if 
those changes had already made your quality of thought 
so poor that you couldn’t recognize how 
poor it had become. A safer way would 
Can any simple scheme like this give rise to all the richness of the 
meaning of a real language-word? The answer is that all ideas about 
the meaning will seem inadequate by themselves, since nothing can 
mean anything except within some larger context of ideas. 
® 
Ragen knew some of the other people 
who shared his body. He knew Billy, 
whom he had know from the beginning 
of his own consciousness; David, who 
accepted the pain; Danny, who lived in 
constant fear; and three-year old 
Christene, whom he adored. But he 
knew there were others as well — 
many others he hadn’t met. The voices 
and things that happened couldn't be 
explained by just the five of them. 
¢ 
“Think of it,” he said, “as if all of us — a 
lot of people, including many you have never met — are 
in a dark room. In the center of this room is a bright spot 
of light on the floor. Whoever steps into this light, onto 
the spot, is out in the real world and holds the conscious- 
ness. That’s the person other people see and hear and 
react to. The rest of us can go about our regular inter- 
ests, study or sleep or talk or play. But whoever is out 
When Rabbit Howls 
The Troops for Truddi Chase 
1987; 350 pp. 
$18.95 
($20.45 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
P. O. Box 120 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
800/526-0275 
or Whole Earth Access 
If you’ve ever had deep searching questions about 
the relationship between the mind and the sense of 
self, this book’s for you. I’m not sure | believe the 
be to keep some older version of your 
previous mind intact as you constructed 
each new version. Then you could “re- 
gress” to a previous stage in case the 
new one failed, and you could also use it 
to evaluate the performance of the new 
stage. 
: 
My da 
gate te Sy ih A Cage ANA cmt 
sft ant an ply 
Do you Likg 
Lersan\ 
TL Lovo 
ym 
M Aiteey say you Going 
help us 
N gant big hug ANB Kiss Fe Miss Judey 
rom 
Ch istond 
Christine’s note to attorney Judy Stevenson 
“Ragen Holding Christine.” Pencil sketch by Allen. Christine spells 
her own name with an “e” — Christene — whereas the other person- 
alities spell it as usual, with an “i.” 
must be very careful he or she doesn't reveal the exis- 
tence of the others. It is a family secret.” 
basic premise: that it was written by the “Troops,” a 
cooperative of at least 90 personalities nesting in 
one woman, Trudi Chase; the style is a little too 
homogenized, though the clash of competing 
voices gets confusing at times. If you buy the basic 
premise, then maybe this is what it's like to be 
inside Trudi’s head. However, whether When 
Rabbit Howls is 100 percent true or not, it’s a 
fascinating tale of the human spirit and raises 
questions about the origins of personality and the 
survival capabilities of the human mind. 
— Pamela Winfrey 
