COMPUTER VIRUSES 
lis 
by Corinne Cullen Hawkins 
Computer viruses, like their biological counterparts, trick 
the host into reproducing copies of the invading organism. 
They spread from computer to computer through elec- 
tronic bulletin boards, telecommunication systems, and 
shared floppy disks. Viruses are created by human pro- 
grammers, for fun or malice, but once they begin to spread, 
they take on a life of their own, creating disruption, 
dismay, and paranoia in their wake. Here are some of the 
more notorious and virulent viruses to date. 
(C) Brain Virus — First sighted Fall, 1987 at University 
of Delaware. It changes the volume label (the name you 
give it) of a floppy or hard disk to (C) Brain. The boot 
record contains a message: “Welcome to the dungeon 
. 
.. Beware of this VIRUS. Contact us for vaccina- 
tion.” The message includes an address and phone 
number of Brain Computer Services, acomputer com- 
pany in Lahore, Pakistan, and the names of two broth- 
ers, Basit and Amjad. 
The virus marks some disk sectors as bad. It modifies 
several command files, maybe all of them eventually, 
without changing file sizes or dates. Even if the boot 
sector is rewritten, the virus remains active through 
the command files it modified. No known cure. 
(comp.risks, April 5, 1988) This is the first virus to 
infect an American newspaper’s computer system 
(The Providence Journal-Bulletin). When the phone 
number in Pakistan was called, the person who an- 
swered expressed surprise that the virus had travelled 
so far — and refused to give his last name. (New York 
Times May 25, 1988). 
Israeli Virus — First sighted by Yuval Rakavy, a student 
at Hebrew University; 
first mentioned publically in 
“Maariv,” one of Israel’s daily newspapers, Jan. 8, 1988. 
Designed to begin destroying files on May 13, and to slow 
computer response on the 13th of any month. What called 
attention to the virus was an error in the virus code itself, 
which caused it to mistake previously infected programs as 
uninfected. In error, it would add another copy of itself to 
the program. Some programs were infected as many as 400 
times and the growth in size of the program was noticeable. 
This one was discovered before D-day, but it had infected 
home, university, and military computers before it was de- 
tected. 
LeHigh Virus — First sighted on November 25, 1987 by 
Jeffrey Carpenter. It attaches itself to a few lines of the 
operating system used on the IBM PC’s that LeHigh 
University provides for student use. It is a corruption of a 
legitimate program, Command.Com, the basic boot-up 
file of MS-DOS and PC-Dos. The virus doesn’t change the 
length of Command.Com, which makes it more difficult to 
detect. The virus destroys data on floppies and hard disks 
by writing zeros to the first thirty-two sectors of a disk 
(which erases the directory), making the data unrecover- 
able. The virus waits until it has been copied four times 
before it wipes out the data on the disk on which it resides. 
MacMag Virus — First sighted by Chris Borton March 8, 
1988. The virus was launched in December 1987 by 
Richard Brandow, publisher of MacMag magazine in 
GY yy) Montreal, Canada. The virus was designed to pop up a 
message of peace on Macintosh screens on March 2, the 
anniversary of the introduction of the Apple Macintosh SE 
and Macintosh II. After March 2, the virus erased itself. 
Although this virus was designed to be benign, ithad some 
nasty side effects: it played havoc with users’ System 
folders, resulting in thousands of hours of lost work. 
The virus spread to Europe and the west coast and it is the 
first virus to infect a commercial personal computer prod- 
uct. It was inadvertantly passed to Aldus by Marc Canter, 
president of MacroMind Inc. of Chicago. Mr. Canter’s 
personal machine caught the virus, which was transfered 
to training software he was writing for Aldus. Aldus 
admits that the infected disk was copied for three days. 
Half of the infected disks were distributed to retailers; the 
other half are in Aldus’ warehouse. 
MacMag Virus display. 
Richard Brandow , Publisher of MacMag, and its entire staff 
would like to take this opportunity to convey their 
Universal Message of Peace 
to all macintosh users around the world. 
Click to continue 
Written by: Drew Davidson 
Bell Labs Virus — A compiler program (which translates 
aprogrammer’s instructions into numbers that a computer 
can read) had been altered so that it embedded a hidden 
“trapdoor” each time it created a new version of the 
operating system. The trapdoor altered the system so that, 
in addition to normal users’ passwords, it would recognize 
a secret password known only to one person. The instruc- 
tions never showed up in the program listing — it was 
undetectable through normal means. The virus never es- 
caped Bell Labs. 
MacInVirus — First known encounter by David Spector; 
this virus was written by a West German and posted to 
CompuServe in a HyperCard stack. 
It’s a very simple 
virus, easily defeated, just a few pages of Pascal and fifty 
lines of assembly code. The virus is disguised as aresource 
that inserts itself in a system trap handler (the place where 
the computer catches errors so they won’t cause system 
crashes). The virus destroys hard disks and the applica- 
tions that run on them. 
Atari ST Virus — First dissected March 22, 1988 by 
Martin Minow. Once installed, this virus will copy itself 
onto every non-write protected disk used. It tests an 
uninfected disk to see if it contains the virus, replicates, 
then it keeps count of how many times the disk is used after 
that. When a certain limit is reached, the virus writes 
random data across the central directory and file allocation 
tables — which contain the map of unused sectors for the 
disk, making it unusable. The virus then removes itself 
from the damaged disk. The current virus doesn’t affect 
hard disks. This virus may survive a reset. 
As viruses have proliferated, so have vaccines, disin- 
fectents, and other remedies. 
Protec ($195 from Sophco. Inc., P.O. Box 7430, Boulder, 
CO, 80306). 
Asystem of programs that includes Vaccinate 
— a virus, itself, which infects the host via the Syringe 
program. It warns the user if a virus infection has occurred. 
It also includes Canary — a quarantine program. When 
new files are imported from an unknown source, a user 
places the Canary program on a diskette with the suspect 
files. If the Canary dies, a virus program is present. 
Ferret — created by Larry Nedry and Scott Winders. 
Notifys an infected user of the date that the Scores virus 
installed itself. It’s helpful in determining where/how the 
virus was picked up. Ferret is available on electronic 
bulletin boards such as CompuServe and MacNET. 
Vaccine — by Don Brown at CE Software. It enables 
your computer’s operating system to detect alterations 
to the code of your system files and applications. 
Warning: If your system is already infected when you 
install Vaccine, there will beno warning from Vaccine 
of the viruses existence. If Vaccine is installed on a 
sterile system and the Scores vimus is introduced later, 
Vaccine will war of the virus attack but it will not 
prevent infection. Vaccine is available on electronic 
bulletin boards. 
Interferon — written by Robert Woodhead. A share- 
ware program that detects and claims to recognize 
“signals” that viruses give off when they are present, 
Interferon was intended to complement the Vaccine 
program. Interferon is available on electronic bulletin 
boards. 
Data Physician — the grandaddy of virus remedies ($199 
from Digital Dispatch, Fridley, Minnesota). It detects and 
in some cases eliminates viruses. It includes: Data MD — 
creates a list of computer data files to be protected and 
watches them while the computer is in operation; Antigen 
— attaches itself to an individual computer program and 
checks it for viruses each time it’s used. Padlock — 
prevents anything from being written on a storage disk 
unless the computer operator pushes a button to give 
permission; Data Physician works on IBM PC and UNIX 
systems. 
Disk Defender — (Director Technologies, Inc., Technol- 
ogy Innovation Center, 906 University Place, Evanston, 
IL, 60201; 312/491-2334). This is a product which write 
protects in hardware all or part of a personal computer hard 
disk. This protects the operating system and commonly 
used programs from viruses. 
Virus RX — developed by Apple, this is a detection tool 
to determine whether a system has been infected by the 
Scores virus, and if so, which applications have been 
affected. 
It lists damaged applications, invisible files, 
altered system files, and altered applications. Virus Rx 
reports different levels of concern from simple comments 
to “dangerous,” and finally to “fatal.” This program is 
available through Apple dealers, AppleLink, and through 
some users-group bulletin boards. 
19 
