12 
FRACTALS 
The Fractal 
Geometry of Nature 
Benoit Mandelbrot 
1982; 468 pp. 
$34.95 
($38.45 postpaid) from: 
W.H. Freeman & Co. 
4419 West 1980 South 
Salt Lake City, UT 84104 
801/973-4660 
or Whole Earth Access 
Fractals, and other members of a growing family of 
mathematical works of art, are quite well known by 
now; Lucasfilm employs them for special effects 
and videogames, and the Mandelbrot set has 
made the cover of Scientific American. But | 
remember the first time | saw a fractal, a hand- 
drawn snowflake curve somebody had left around 
our common workspace. Later, the concepts of 
self-similarity and recursion would help unlock the 
secrets of what mathematicians of the last century 
used to call “monsters”; but back then, | had a hard 
time wrapping my mind around this simple, com- 
plex picture/idea. A fractal is something like a 
snapshot of a never-ending procedure, an instruc- 
tion which calls itself over and over; computer 
graphics are used to reveal the complex beauty of 
these creations. 
Mandelbrot’s book can be experienced at many 
levels. The illustrations are breathtaking, from the 
Growth 
Morphogenesis 
Yoichiro Kawaguchi 
1985; 212 pp. 
$29.95 
($32.95 postpaid) from: 
JICC USA 
3540 Wilshire Boulevard 
Suite 406 
Los Angeles, CA 90010 
Yoichiro Kawaguchi’s work makes use of fractals, 
but he’s not just a finder of fruitful equations, he’s a 
brilliant inventor of visual worlds. Colorfully pat- 
terned biomorphs, resembling sea creatures from 
another planet, grow, writhe, float and evolve in his 
video animations, while the surroundings, the 
observer's viewpoint and the light source all move. 
The dynamism of these forms is partly captured in 
sequences of stills in this amply illustrated book, 
with texts in Japanese and English. Some of the 
chapters seem to be transcribed lectures by Ka- 
waguchi; the hallucinogenic flavor of his thinking is 
somewhat heightened by the difficulty of transla- 
tion. 
Other chapters are descriptions of method and 
purpose by some of his collaborators, interspersed 
with short testimonials from his fans. The computer 
system (64 minis linked in parallel) and the pro- 
gramming concepts he uses are described in the 
appendix. This is some of the most exciting com- 
puter-graphic work I’ve ever seen. 
—Robert Horvitz 
maze-like black and white plots which show how 
fractals are “grown,” to color-enhanced computer 
images of dreamscapes and planets that never 
were. The details of the mathematics are all here, 
too, and are interwoven with Mandelbrot’s very 
human stories about the mathematicians and sci- 
entists (and even the computer programs) who 
contributed to the growth of the field. | find these 
works as inspiring as any cathedral’s stained 
glass, and Mandelbrot’s book will offer its treasures 
to me for a long time to come. 
—Laurie Edwards 
a 
In Koch recursion, every straight 
interval in a finite approximation is 
eventually broken up into shorter 
pieces. In many applications, it is 
useful to generalize this procedure 
by allowing certain intervals to be 
"infertile," so that in later stages 
they remain untouched. 
Here, this generalized procedure is 
used to grow a "tree." One starts 
with a trunk having barren sides 
and a fertile “bud.” The bud gener- 
ates two "branches," on which 
again only two terminal "buds" are 
fertile. And so on ad infinitum. The 
growth is asymmetric to insure that 
the tree fills a roughly rectangular 
portion of the plane with no gap 
and no overlap. However, asymp- 
totic self-contact is not avoided, 
and indeed every point on the "bark" line can also be 
obtained as a limit branch tip. 
The “subtrees” constructed starting with the main lead- 
ers are similar to the whole tree in two different similarity 
ratios, r1 and r2. ... This composite Figure results from 
a Koch tree construction in which the generator is 
changed at each stage, so that the ratio of width to 
length decreases to 0. On the left side of the compostie 
Figure, this ratio decreases even faster than on the right 
side. The result is that the branch tips are no longer self- 
similar. 
Self-terminating hereditary information takes a completely autono- 
mous shape as the spiral covering the outer skin — the ascending 
and descending spiral completely covers the outer skin with a 
firm 
husk. Thatis, futhermore, like the properties of a highly acid creature. 
¢ 
The original character which is dispatched and harmo- 
nized — the cell-like trait, which grows while sent out in 
liquid-state from a husk closed within a kernel, self- 
materializes a definitely hereditary character within a 
movement combining a semiorganic ionized colloid 
personality with the arbitrariness of the living body. 
¢ 
Topological paradise — a resonance with intricacy and 
confrontation between influence and assertion fuse, so 
that an emotional perspective appears. This is the emer- 
gence of a world of words polished through living body 
rhythms and the weaving of brocade. This is 
probably reflected screen in the human mental 
world. It forms a celestial image surpassing 
the pain of existence bespoken by colors and 
common sayings. 
This may well be the most sublime image that 
computer graphics can achieve now. 
The mimesis in the level of transparency — the mimesis 
which has melted invisibly within the light, seems to be 
an art of seclusion within the bounds of human visibility. 
The living body is purified, and its transparency is 
gauged at the point at which it can no longer hold 
impurities inside the body cavity even by using all its 
might 
