piners=e0 World 
PERSON Lives ThRevgH a Mitliow, MitLion Hours, | . 
oa. 
Dish WAsHiM &, weRKING Jobs THEY HATE, wairine foe Busk 5M = 
(4 issues) from: 
a 
a 
a 
v 
cay 
hi 
= 
Processed World 
41 Sutter Street #1829 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
415/495-6823 
Sick & tired of living a life of quiet desperation? Try 
some noisy desperation instead — from Proc- 
essed World, the unofficial mouthpiece of 
disgruntled and alienated employees everywhere! 
Each issue contains devilishly entertaining articles 
on ways low-level white-collar workers can jazz up 
their work life — for instance, by diverting corpo- 
rate information channels to their own use. Stuffing 
envelopes today? Add copies of radical leaflets 
(preferably Xeroxed at the boss’ expense) to the 
mailings! Emulating such manoeuvres is sure to 
get you fired eventually — but if you share 
Processed World’s opinion of wage slavery, you'll 
be glad to shuck that crummy job, anyway. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
MEANWHILE, IN THE OFFICE OF A MAJOR 
METROPOLITAN CORPORATION, THE BOSS IS 
GOING CRAZY... 
Why did you let me write 
this memo? The information's wrong, the spelling 
awful! Can’t | do anything right? Make me an 
appointment at Frenchy’s Massage Parlor! And 
Betty — YOU’RE FIRED!! 
My stint at the Downtown Community College at 4th and 
Mission in San Francisco lasted a mere three months. 
But it was a turning point for a couple of reasons. For 
one thing | learned word processing there, which 
catapulted me from $5-$6/hr. jobs up to $10-$12/hr. 
ones. It also made me aware that most people worked in 
offices, especially in SF, and | wanted to address this 
fact, since | too was suddenly an “information handler.” 
As an information clerk | sat right inside the front door 
and spent seven hours a day telling people where the 
bathroom was, when and where classes met, and about 
English as a second language. The school provided two 
basic services, both primarily for the benefit of the 
downtown office world: basic training in office skills and 
English classes for newly arrived immigrants and 
refugees that prepared them for rudimentary data entry 
jobs at very low wages. ... 
| had never planned to stay long, despite the two-year 
minimum | promised in the interview. Instead | was going 
east for a nice, long, summer vacation. About six weeks 
before | planned to quit, | composed a fake advertise- 
ment for the DCCC and had it printed up. This ad 
summarized all my jaded views of the purpose of this 
INFORMATION BUREAUCRACIES 
Hy JAre. 
“training institute for the clerical working-class” after a 
few months of being there 40 hours a week. About ten 
days before | had planned to quit, | began surreptitiously 
placing them inside the Fall schedules of SF City 
College, which | distributed at the front desk. A few days 
later the shit hit the fan. A coworker came running up to 
me when | came to work in the morning and asked if | 
had done a yellow leaflet that had the entire school in an 
uproar. Apparently a Bechtel executive had turned it in to 
the administration the night before. | smiled and told her 
“No, never heard of it.” It was nonetheless obvious to my 
coworkers, who knew of my bad attitude, that | was the 
culprit. 
| was absent from my work station when the snooty 
director, Dr. B, came in, oblivious to my “crime.” She 
gave me a dark look as | scurried back to my position. 
Five minutes later the phone rang, and | was told to 
come to her office. She looked rather pale as | entered. 
ie 
tHERE _Sofen memenTs 
THAT AR 
a 2 
; 
L 
Sd 
. 
GOT TH THE PEST of it ? 
She was boiling but tried to act calm. From beneath a 
16-inch pile of papers she pulled out a copy of the leaflet 
— she had only seen it moments ago and had already 
hidden it — and thrust it at me, saying “What can you tell 
me about this?!” 
| said, “Oh, is that the yellow leaflet | was told about? 
Can | see it?” | took it and sat down and slowly read it as 
if | had never seen it before. | chuckled at the funny 
parts, dragging out my feigned surprise until she finally 
exploded: 
“You are SICK! You must be deranged to do something 
like this; it's damaging to our institute, YOU’RE FIRED!!” 
| denied responsibility just in case some kind of lawsuit 
resulted (| had put her name and the school’s actual logo 
on it) and protested that | wanted to complete my final 
week, but she told me to go. | left feeling quite satisfied 
with the extra days off before my vacation. 
. 
. 
Loompanics 
Information free from: Loompanics Unlimited 
P.O. Box 1197 Port Townsend, WA 98368 
The endless trail of information (consisting of 
medical and tax records, bank statements, credit 
card accounts) an individual lays down during the 
course of a life is braided with everyone else’s 
trails into the engulfing web of an information Black 
Widow. A few fugitives dare snip the threads to 
escape. They have compiled a fat catalog of 
THE PAPER TRIP | 
by Barry Reid 
Sarry Reid's Paper Trip books 
are the classic and original 
books on obtaining /D in what- 
ever name you want. The me- 
thods described are so fool- 
proof that the Federal Advisory 
Committee on False identifi- 
cation spent nearly two years 
vainly trying to find ways of 
closing the loopnoies revealed 
in Volume One aione. 
In +4 authoritative chapters 
you 
will 
learn 
professional 
secrets for creating an entirely 
new identity. The Paper Trip | 
gives you priceless information 
on just how “The System” 
works. Now you Can take control of your own life by learning 
the closely guarded secrets of creating a new identity. Best of 
all, your next 10 will be undetectabie because it will be issued 
by the government itself! 
Topics covered include: * A step-by-step method for assem- 
dling a complete package of alternate iO, based on an original 
birth certificate # All the information you need to obtain your 
documents directly from the government itself #* How to make 
or obtain any kind of supporting card you need * Where to 
obtain commercial !0 forms ana stock * And much, much 
more! 
Too good to be true? Read The Paper Trip | and you will be 
a believer! Even if you don’t need to change your identity now 
or use some of the more radical techniques, this information is 
THE CRIMINAL USE OF FALSE IDENTIFICATION 
anarchist books that thumb their noses at all 
authority and any bureaucracy. 
Some of these books are at the edge of legality 
and sanity: how to make bombs, or tap phones. A 
few you may want to know about for your own 
defense: how credit card scams work, or tricks for 
procuring false ID. Others deal with 
the simple matter of information 
outlawry. Approach with prudence. 
—Kevin Kelly 
NEW 
1.D. IN 
AMERICA 
The Criminal Use of 
False 
— 
Identification 
BY ANONYMOUS 
193 
absolutely priceless. Some day you may be very glad inderd 
that you took time for The Paper Trip |... 
1984, 8% x 11, 82 pp, ilustrated, 
soft 
THE PAPER TRIP I: $15.95 
(ORDER NUMBER 61010) 
A Summary Report on the Nature, Scope and 
Impact of False ID Use in the United States 
The Report of the Federal Advisory Committee 
on False Identification 
