aa 
RESEARCH TECHNIQUES 
Finding Facts Fast 
Alden Todd 
1972, 1979; 123 pp. 
$3.95 
($4.95 postpaid) from: 
Ten Speed Press 
P. O. Box 7123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
415/845-8414 
or Whole Earth Access 
A basic handbook for laypeople. It has beautiful 
two- and three-page descriptions of how to treat 
hundreds of problems in research from very ele- 
mental to very advanced levels. From‘finding the 
right library” to “government as an information 
source” to “oral history collections” and “obtaining 
out-of-print books.” Every time | get lost in the 
world of information | use Todd to ground me. 
—Richard Green 
Yup. Still unsurpassed after 16 years. This is 
where you learn research common sense. 
—Art Kleiner 
How to learn things: 
A handy tip 
by Anne Herbert 
| If you’re starting to leam about a field that you know 
nothing about, go to the children’s library and get 
| some fifth, sixth, seventh grade books about it before 
you go on into grownup books. Basic books for 
grownups tend to be aimed at college freshmen taking 
required courses — and everyone knows that they’re 
supposed to suffer, including the people who write the 
books. Basic books for kids are aimed at kids brows- 
ing in libraries who don’t have to be there and could 
leave anytime. The books have colors and pictures and 
a will to sell the subject; the good ones assume you 
know nothing without being condescending. You can 
get some vocabulary and feel for the shape of the 
subject before you get into the stuck-up real books. 
Kids’ books can also help if you are one of those 
freshmen in one of those required courses. 
Libraries 
by Art Kleiner 
Just as churches can be sanctuaries for live human 
bodies, libraries should be revered as sanctuaries for 
live human thoughts and feelings. Libraries also pro- 
vide a free way to read any book in this catalog — if it 
isn’t in that branch, most libraries have excellent inter- 
library loan methods for finding just about anything 
(given enough time). As Anne Herbert wrote, “I’ve 
known people who would call 17 bookstores to find a 
book and never go down the street to the library. At 
the library, it doesn’t matter if the books are out of 
print. They’re there, and the price is right.” 
“Libraries will get you through times of no money 
better than money will get you through times of no 
libraries.” 
—Anne Herbert 
4 
Another starting point is with companies, organizations 
and associations, through which you can find the 
specialists who would know their own trade press. The 
researcher can then go directly to his target by asking 
the specialized craftsman, or professional, or 
businessman: 
“What trade journals do you read? Which ones do your 
colleagues read? Which are your best printed sources of 
information?” and, “Do you have copies of them?” 
I or- 
e 
objection 
is SO ordered 
NEW NATIONAL HEALTH INSUR- 
ANCE PROGRAM 
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President,, today: 
Iam pleased to make public an outline of* 
a significant new. national health insur- 
ance program, prepared by the Com- 
mittee for National Health Insurance:in: 
collaboration with my office. 
9g 
Ibis nearly’ 10 years since CNHI was. 
formed. Its goal was and is: to: achieve: 
high quality health care for all Ameri- 
cans as. a matter of right, within a:sys-- 
tem: that brings runaway. health costs: 
under. control. 
Many aspects of American life haver 
changed since CNHI was formed in 1968: 
Many-<of these changes have’ been posi- 
tive-and have enriched the quality of life« 
for. millions: of Americans. But: in: one: 
area—the health area—the crisis which’. 
was just emerging in 1968 has grown se 
riously worse. The major reason has been: 
the runaway. escalation of health: care: 
costs: 
: 
This: rampant: inflation takes its. toll: 
everywhere—on: Federal. budgets: wher 
the» percentage 
of the Federal 
dollar: 
spent on health has risen from 4.3' per. 
cent in 1963 to 12.7 percent this -year; 
on State budgets: where Medicaid costs 
have become the single most rapidly es- 
calating cost; on corporations which pay* 
more and more: each: year for’ health: 
benefits; on the American family which: 
must pay $2,115 today, and $3,590 in: 
1983 for benefits which cost $533 in 1963; 
on the elderly, who pay more for their 
care today out of their own pocket than: 
the year Medicare was implemented. 
& 
Hospital costs are‘so out of control 
Bk. 
that usually rational-people talk about 
Knowing Where to Look 
(The Ultimate Guide 
to Research) 
Lois Horowitz 
1984, 1988; 440 pp. 
$19.95 
($22.45 postpaid) from: 
Writer's Digest Books 
1507 Dana Avenue 
Cincinnati, OH 45207 
513/531-2222 
or Whole Earth Access 
Information is everywhere — in public libraries, 
universities, government organizations, the memo- 
ries of experts, historical societies, museums, 
computer databases, churches, etc., etc. The 
problem is knowing how to access the specific 
information you need. That’s called research, and 
here’s a well-organized manual for conducting all 
kinds of information searches, written by Lois Hor- 
owitz, a University of California/San Diego refer- 
ence librarian and newspaper columnist. She 
points us wisely to a wide range of reference tools, 
well-known and obscure directories, indexes, bibli- 
ographies, microfilm subject sets, and registers. 
And she introduces research strategies. 
¢ 
The Congressional Record, printed daily when Congress 
is in session, is a highly useful source of information on 
matters of current interest as well as a gold mine for 
historians and biographers. The main body of the Con- 
gressional Record is a verbatim transcript (sometimes 
edited) of the words spoken on the floor of the U.S. 
Senate and House of Representatives. In addition, the 
Appendix to the record includes all kinds of papers which 
members of Congress arrange to have inserted into the 
record as “extensions” of their remarks, without reading 
them aloud. ... 
What makes the Congressional Record so valuable in 
research is its index, which is compiled fortnightly during 
the annual sessions of Congress, and is cumulated after 
the session adjourns into one alphabetical index for the 
session. The index covers both floor action and the 
Extension of Remarks, and is meticulously maintained 
by name and subject. 
This makes it possible for you 
to find quickly the page refer- 
ences to every speech or 
passing remark made by any 
Member of Congress, every 
alan 
i 
paper introduced into the 
Record, and every bill he 
AIT TT 
sponsored. Under a given 
ev EN 
vial 
“income taxes”) you can find 
who discussed it on the floor; 
what bills concerning it were 
introduced, or acted on by 
either house or by commit- 
tees; and what articles and 
speeches touching on it were 
inserted into the Record in 
the Extension of Remarks. 
The Congressional Record includes every word spoken on the floor 
of the Senate or House of Representatives. 
Dry and boring? Nope, because the pointers are 
illustrated with scores of fun examples for the 
author’s newspaper column, “The Reference Li- 
brarian,” helping plain folks with research problems 
about everything from movie stars to missing per- 
sons to UFOs. 
—Ted Schultz 
This is the book to use after Finding Facts Fast. 
—Art Kleiner 
Let's say you’re not an expert in criminology, but you 
want either to write a detective novel or to find out more 
about your legal rights. How can you learn the tech- 
niques of police interrogation, the tricks used in ques- 
tioning to get the truth, the things a police officer can and 
cannot legally do, the procedure for a polygraph test, or 
the components of a written report? Spending time with 
a police department representative might be one way to 
find out. But what happens if you doubt the objectivity of 
his information? Must you visit the local police station for 
many weeks and take copious notes on police routines? 
That's another possibility — if you have weeks to spend. 
You don’t have to abandon your research, or as a novel- 
ist, avoid certain episodes at the expense of realism. 
You might try textbooks. Check Subject Guide to Books 
in Print where you'll find an inventory of police officers’ 
textbooks. 
subject (such as “narcotics” or: 
