Bypassing the 
Phone 
Companies 
by Benn Kobb, KCSCW, and Howard Goldstein 
Packet radio is a technique for distributing electronic 
mail and messages to specific terminals using radio 
channels. Its significance is that it offers computer users 
complete bypass of the wired telephone network and 
their high costs. You can therefore communicate long 
distances, dependably, without technical knowledge, for 
free. 
: 
The basic elements of a packet station are a cheap com- 
puter, a small radio transceiver, and a “terminal node 
controller (TNC),” the packet equivalent of amodem. A 
$200 hand-held radio and a $100 Commodore 64 com- 
puter work as well as anything. 
The distance range of packet radio is around eight miles 
line-of-sight on open terrain, with an antenna up 30 feet 
and about 10 watts of power. Devices called digital 
repeaters (digipeaters) can extend the range of any 
station by retransmitting the packets. There’s a protocol 
that lets you string up to eight of these digipeater hops 
together to reach another person. Plus, every TNC 
including your own is also a potential digipeater (you 
don’t notice if someone “uses yow”). 
Many local and regional ham groups operate digi- 
peaters, collecting dues from their members for upkeep; 
some are designated “gateways” to local or wide-area 
networks, or to long-distance paths via satellite or short- 
wave. 
Radio amateurs have been quick to grasp the potential 
of packet, as it offers a much faster and more efficient 
way to handle messages than anything they had previ- 
ously. It’s also better suited to an urban environment 
than shortwave voice communication, the traditional 
mainstay of amateur traffic distribution. In cities, very 
little power and antennas that are just inches long are 
enough to get a packet signal to the next node in the 
network. 
The future of packet radio lies in the heavens, on satel- 
lites. The first to be launched is PACSAT, a joint proj- 
ect between radio amateur groups AMSAT in Washing- 
ton, D.C., and VITA, a 25-year-old organization that 
provides technical assistance to Third World countries. 
The idea is to set up an orbiting public mailbox. The 
satellite’s orbit will bring it in view of any point in the 
world four times a day for several minutes at a time. 
During each pass it will dump whatever messages it has 
to packet radio listeners and pick up any new messages 
and hold them until it can post them. Japanese amateurs 
are also launching a similar low-orbiting computer 
mailbox called JAS-1. Both are inexpensive devices 
built by volunteers and donations. 
The ground equipment needed to get satellite mail fits 
into a briefcase — including the antenna. It runs on 
batteries. The initial cost is estimated at $1000. How- 
ever, to use packet radio (via digipeaters or satellites), 
you need to have a ham license, and your messages 
cannot be for commercial use. 
Gateway, Stan Horzepa, Editor; $6/25 issues from: 
The Packet Radio 
Handbook 
Jonathan L. Mayo, KR3T 
1987; 217 pp. 
$14.95 postpaid from: 
TAB Books, Inc. 
Blue Ridge Summit, 
PA 17294-0550 
800/233-1128 
or Whole Earth Access 
Your Gateway to Packet Radio 
Stan Horzepa, WA1LOU 
1987; 239 pp. 
$10 
($12.50 postpaid) from: 
American Radio Relay League 
225 Main Street 
Newington, CN 06111 
203/666-1541 
or Whole Earth Access 
Talk about dinosaurs! You still need to pass a 
Morse Code proficiency test to send radio mes- 
sages via the amateur radio network. A few radio 
hackers have a better idea: cheap computers 
hooked up to their ham gear. Instead of a human 
radio operator laboriously transmitting a rapid 
series of dots and dashes into the scattered at- 
mosphere to be deciphered by a trained human 
listener far away (if he can hear it), packet radio 
hams use computers to do all the coding and re- 
laying. While they are at it, the computers also 
direct messages to particular areas of the globe 
depending on the destination address affixed to 
the message “packet”, thus significantly increasing 
the range and usefulness of ham radio. With this 
system, shortwave radio messages (they must 
carry only personal and non-commercial content) 
become a sort of free radio mail. 
The good ole boy network of ham radio fans is 
being revolutionized by these radio hackers. 
Here's the two books that will bring you up to 
speed. Packet Radio Handbook is a good 
introduction; Your Gateway to Packet Radio 
gives a thorough grounding in the technical 
methods. 
—Kevin Kelly 
¢ 
In the simplest case, a packet network consists of a few 
stations within direct communications range from each 
other on a single frequency. A more complex network 
involves digipeating (simplex packet repeaters) to extend 
a station’s communication range and gateways for 
accessing stations with different capabilities (such as 
ARRL, 225 Main Street, Newington, CT 06111 
To hook into the packet radio network we suggest you 
read Gateway, a newsletter published by the American 
Radio Relay League. If a “packeteer” could only get one 
magazine this is the one, and it’s not overly technical. 
CompuServe’s HamNet SIG (GO HAMNET). For 
information on joining, write or call: CompuServe, P.O. 
Box 20212, Columbus, OH 43220; 800/848-8199 or 
614/457-0802 
HamNet has a section and data library devoted to 
packet, with at least one introductory on-line document 
PACKETRADIO 
85 
As the Computer Age dawned in Amateur Radio, radio hackers had 
to be very resourceful. Here, a young radio hacker built a wall of 
aluminum cylinders to contain the RF generated by his TRS-80 
Model 1 computer. 
—Your Gateway to Packet Radio 
those on another frequency or using another modem 
configuration). This is the stage of networking that pres- 
ent day amateur packet radio has reached in the 
United States. 
—The Packet Radio Handbook 
Channel 7 Satellite 
Channel 6 VHF 
Channel 5 VHF 
Channel 4 UHF 
Channel 3 HF 
A 
SoS 
Ses = MID 
Channel 2 HF 
RCS 
SOS 
LOSS 
Channel 1 VHF 
Ground Area 
A model representing the present day amateur packet radio mult- 
plexed network. Stations B, D, and O are gateways which allow 
stations on one layer to communicate on another layer. By spreading 
the total number of stations over several channels, the congestion on 
a single channel is reduced. Notice the wide coverage of the satellite 
channel. 
—The Packet Radio Handbook 
on the subject, and an on-line version of Gateway, 
edited by ARAL, that reports significant, fast-breaking 
news and announcements every two weeks. 
Advanced Electronic Applications, Inc., P.O. Box C- 
2160, Lynwood, WA 98036; 206/775-7373 
Heath Company, Benton Harbor, Ml 49022; 800/253- 
0570 
Kantronics, 1202 E. 23rd Street, Lawrence, KS 66046; 
913/842-7745 
Each of these companies sells packet radio equipment. 
Send for their catalogs. 
