The WELL 
by John Coate 
I WORK AT THE WELL, Whole Earth’s online 
computer conferencing network. The WELL itself sits 
in an air-conditioned closet at the Whole Earth office. A 
bunch of phone lines come into the building. There’s a 
modem for each phone line. These modems in turn are 
wired up to a Vax computer. The Vax is about the size 
of a large dishwasher. We can handle up to 23 callers at 
a time, which we often do with over a thousand people 
logging in each month. When people visit us they like 
to go in and look at the equipment. When you see the 
lights on the modems flickering you know that conver- 
sations are happening. Minds are meeting. 
Personal computers are amazing communication tools. 
Put a computer together with a modem and you can 
converse simultaneously with several people, collabo- 
rate on writing projects, find work, gather and refine 
ideas, get technical updates, swap some stories, argue 
politics, ‘and get a recommendation on a good restaurant 
and movie without getting up from your desk. Online 
conferencing networks can be both a place where you 
meet people — like a neighborhood pub — and a tool 
for gathering and storing information. 
As I sit at my desk in the WELL office shuttling be- 
tween conferences, doing mail, writing pieces like this 
one, and talking online as well as on the phone to new 
users, I check to see who is logged in every few min- 
utes. I know most of the names. Because we have had 
a lot of social gatherings I know many faces to go along 
with the names. Many have become my good friends. 
Sometimes when I’m working I feel like I’m in the 
wheelhouse of a big Mississippi riverboat. On the decks 
people are strolling and talking as they lean against the 
rail. There’s a casino and parlors and places to eat. Way 
down below they’re talking shop with the machinists. 
There are regulars and newcomers. Everyone has a 
unique point of view. Sometimes it’s choppy, but 
usually it’s steady as she goes. 
WELL stands for Whole Earth “Lectronic Link. It’s the 
collaborative brainchild of Whole Earth’s Stewart Brand 
and Larry Brilliant, best known for his work with the 
SEVA Foundation and head of Network Technologies 
(NETI). Whole Earth and NETI each own half of the 
WELL. After spending time working on projects 
through the EIES network, Stewart and Larry conceived 
the WELL as a place where a variety of people could 
meet online without spending an arm and a leg. Early on 
Stewart said the WELL is the “kind of thing coffee 
shops were supposed to be about, but are pretty hard to 
find these days.” 
Although there is a lot of useful information stored on 
the WELL like in a library, it is through conversing in 
conferences, electronic mail (email) and real-time that 
the fabric of the community is knit. 
There are over ninety WELL conferences. Some are 
computer specific, some are technical, and some consist 
John Coate [left], on-line party host and Welcome Wagon Chairman; 
Cliff Figallo [right], WELLville Town Supervisor. Respectively, “tex” 
and “fig” on the WELL. 
of people throwing out their ideas, telling their stories or 
arguing social and political issues. After talking with 
people about all kinds of different things over time you 
get the feeling that you know that person even if you 
have never met face to face. 
So you cruise around to different conferences and you 
find out what people think about things. The informa- 
tion moves “horizontally” among the peer group of the 
participants. Anyone can start a discussion topic in a 
conference. Topics can be linked between different con- 
ferences. After awhile I think the word “community” 
begins to describe what goes on better than does “net- 
work.” In a community, the interactions are ongoing. 
You mn into some of the same people every day. Over 
time, professional and personal interaction can overlap. 
There becomes a sense of place to it. It often reminds 
me of an electronic Greenwich Village. Logging in can 
be like going down to the street to check the action. 
We don’t have a lot of rules; we manage the WELL in a 
very low key style. It really can’t be done any other 
way. The keystone of the WELL organization is the 
conference hosts. Every conference has a host. That 
word was very deliberately chosen. Public online 
conferences are a lot like ongoing parties and someone 
has to make sure there’s ice in the cooler, food on the 
table, continuity in the discussions, and good general 
organization. 
Online conferencing is talking by writing. You set up 
your context, get to the point, and get out. Because it’s a 
conversation between sometimes fairly large groups, 
you don’t want to “dominate the rap” and you don’t 
want to be repetitive. You have to remember that people 
are looking at computer screens, which seem to put 
unique demands on people’s ability to focus on long- 
winded pieces. If your “posting” runs longer than one or 
two screen lengths, it had better be pretty interesting. 
And you will hear from people if they think you ramble 
too much. 
The flip side of that, though, is if you have a good story 
to tell or enjoy quality repartee, or can lay out and 
quickly back up an argument or insight, then the chem- 
istry can be there for a kind of ad hoc think tank that has 
soul and is fun. We talk about everything from war and 
law, music, work, birth, death, where this “info age” is 
THE WELL 
going, and AIDS to online talk shows, tales of past ex- 
periences and exploits, online gift notifications (better 
known as Pokeybux), your thoughts on human relation- 
ships, bugs in the latest version of PageMaker, reports 
of WELL weather, the Maddog Improvement Society, 
and critiques of the latest Grateful Dead show. 
Ah yes, the Deadheads. There’s plenty of action around 
the Grateful Dead. The Grateful Dead Conference is the 
WELL’s largest, with people logging in from all over 
the country. It’s mostly good talk, but some online col- 
laboration happens too. Once we designed a WELL T- 
shirt together. We chose the design, had someone take 
the money and another person got them printed up. 
The WELL is a confluence of social and cultural ele- 
ments. Similar to Chesapeake Bay, where nine different 
rivers merge, the WELL’s character comes from hack- 
ers, writers, artists, Deadheads, knowledge workers, fu- 
gitives from the counter-culture, educators, program- 
mers, lawyers, musicians, and many more. 
The Info conference, for example, is regularly visited by 
a magazine editor, a college journalism teacher, an au- 
thor, a consultant to a state assembly committee, an info 
age muckraker, a retired Army colonel tumed info age 
pioneer, a manager from Pacific Bell, a librarian, and 
members of the Congressional Office of Technology 
Assessment. We evaluate news, laws, discuss govern- 
ment hearings, and theorize about the forces at play that 
are attempting to capture their piece of the action as 
these new information tools become more widespread. 
It’s exciting, relevant stuff because it has to do with ba- 
sic Constitutional freedoms. In these discussions, age, 
race, or culture don’t matter. Your contribution to the 
discussion is the only thing that counts. 
I think if the WELL establishes one thing it is that 
meeting through computers doesn’t have to be a step in 
some inexorable march toward an Orwellian society 
with people droning away at isolated terminals. There 
is a kind of magic to the fact that real human emotions, 
“vibes” if you will, can carry through the chips 
and wires. 
If you can get your computer and modem to dial a 
phone number, you can log in to the WELL. Usually the 
default settings that come with the communications pro- 
gram work fine. The WELL does cost money to use, but 
at $8/month + $3/hour the rates are among the lowest in 
the country for comparable facilities. 
Actually, the phone company makes more on this than 
we do. But we have ways of tipping the balance sheet 
more in your favor on the cost of the phone call. If you 
live outside of the San Francisco Bay Area you can save 
substantial money on the phone call by reaching the 
WELL via Tymnet. If you live in the Bay Area call us 
and we’ll give you tips on cheaper phone access through 
special local lines. In addition, the WELL is one of the 
few places where an individual account has full access 
the the worldwide UNIX community through USENET 
and UUCP mail. 
To sign up just call 415/332-6106 with your modem and 
type newuser <cr> at the Login: prompt. Or call us at 
415/332-4335 if you'd like more information. 
23 
