Satellites: 
Extraterrestrial 
Tools 
by Mark Long 
Working overseas helped me step beyond my purely 
American viewpoint to realize that the world is 
inhabited by numerous people and cultures with their 
own unique traditions, values and aspirations. I felt 
some of these ways were equal or superior to those I 
acquired while growing up in suburban America. Once 
I was back in the U.S., however, it was far too easy to 
get mesmerized by narrow nationalistic concerns which 
fail to consider how the rest of the world lives. To keep 
my global perspective honed to a fine edge, I employ a 
backyard full of dish-shaped antennas, each directed 
toward one of 40 telecommunications satellites which 
are accessible from my home in rural Florida. With the 
aid of my satellite “farm,” I gain access to more than 
200 television channels from 17 countries. 
Four Arguments for the Elimination 
of Television 
Jerry Mander 
1978; 371 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
William Morrow Publishing 
Company 
6 Henderson Drive 
West Caldwell, NJ 07006 
201/227-7200 
or Whole Earth Access 
Former adman Jerry Mander denounces the 
inherent dangers of a system where information is 
controlled by commercial interests and distorts our 
perception of reality. Food for thought if you’re 
trying to kick the TV habit. 
— Fabrice Florin 
5 
A majority of adults, nearly as high a percentage as 
children, use television to learn how to handle specific 
life problems: family routines; relationships with fellow 
workers; hierarchical values; how to deal with rebellious 
children; how to understand deviations from the social 
norm, sexually, politically, socially and interpersonally. 
The overall fare of television situation-comedies and 
dramatic programs is taken as valid, useful, informative, 
and, in the words of the report, “true to life.” 
Most viewers of television programming give the 
programming concrete validity, as though it were not 
fictional. When solving subsequent, similar problems in 
their own families, people report recalling how the 
problem was solved in a television version of that 
situation. They often make similar choices. 
Sd 
Even if a given subtle emotion can be conveyed from 
time to time on TV, you could never build an entire 
program on it as you could on violent emotions. In 
signal-to-noise terms the entire program would become 
indistinct in comparison with the background of more 
aggressive, expressive and efficient action shows. 
To receive foreign TV news programs, I maneuver my 
dish to catch signals emanating from Satcom F1. 
Channel 11 carries the early and late evening news from 
ITN London every day at 12:45 and 5:45 p.m. EST. On 
the same satellite, Channel 24 transmits the RAI 
Evening News from Rome weekdays at 1:45 p.m. EST. 
The daily Visnews and World Television News (WTN) 
roundups from London also appear on this satellite at 
other times of the day. 
My favorite channel these days is on Telstar 301, which 
carries Russian News programs from Moscow. An 
American company known as Worldview receives the 
Moscow Evening News each day from one of the Soviet 
satellites and then retransmits it via Telstar 301. The 
Russian-language soundtrack is translated into English 
and the Russian TV signal is converted to the NTSC 
video standard so American T'V sets can resolve their 
programs in full living color. 
From watching this and the untranslated Soviet channels 
I get the clear idea that Russians are human beings just 
like the rest of us. They don’t look any different, and 
many of their activities, like celebrating the holiday 
season with Christmas trees, or searching for a good 
mechanic to fix their automobile, are universal 
experiences. On the nightly news spots you see them 
sending their kids off to summer camp. You watch the 
weather, and you get to see temperatures in Siberia, 
which kind of freeze you right there. 
I see the whole culture of the country, from the 
programs the kids watch in the momings to the exercise 
programs. I can watch documentaries that cover both 
the present five-year agricultural plan and chess 
championships. The Russian satellites is not just used 
by the Russians; it’s also shared by the Warsaw Pact 
countries. 
I believe that one of the most significant uses of 
international TV here in North America 1s to allow 
students to really see what’s happening culturally and 
economically in other countries. Recently I installed a 
satellite station at the Naval Academy in Annapolis that 
is used by Navy cadets to watch Russian TV in political 
science classes. Midshipmen who will be our future 
naval officers can see what is behind the Soviet 
government. By watching Russian TV everyday, they 
see the people as they really are, which, I hope, will 
make our officers better able to relate to them on a more 
human level. 
I discovered from watching international TV that 
Russian cartoon program. 
[Below] Test pattern for a Middle Eastern channel. 
[Bottom] Peruvian historical documentary. 
satellites have a much greater impact on people in South 
America than they do here in the United States. Most of 
South America has no cable TY, and in many places 
they have no more than one or two, if any, broadcast 
channels. For them, access to programming from other 
countries via satellite is really very significant. 
For example, most North Americans fail to understand 
the enormous impact and importance of Brazil in South 
America. We have no concept whatsoever of how 
sophisticated Brazil is. But if you watch their daily 
television programming, you immediately get a sense of 
the culture, significance and sheer magnitude of Brazil 
(with 135 million people it’s the second most populous 
country in the Americas, after the U.S.). They have a 
wide variety of well-made programming and news 
reporting. 
Some incredible political changes have been happening 
in Brazil. From my living room I watched their own TV 
broadcast demonstrations of hundreds of thousands of 
people marching in the streets. I could feel people’s 
emotions as they began to have a direct voice in their 
government. To watch that developing and building up 
over a month’s time, finally culminating in the election 
of a revisionist candidate was incredibly wakening. 
Measured by its impact on the world, Brazil is more 
significant than either France or Italy, but our TV 
ignores it. On the CBS News, Brazil might get three 
minutes a month. With my dish and extraterrestrial tools 
I can watch as much as I want. 
GLOBALTV 
91 
