208 MIND CIRCUITS 
The Three-Pound 
Universe 
Judith Hooper 
and Dick Teresi 
1986; 410 pp. 
$12.95 
($13.70 postpaid) from: 
Dell Publishing Co. 
6 Regent Street 
Livingston, NJ 07039 
800/626-3355 
or Whole Earth Access 
Man, with arm around graduating son-in-law, point- 
ing to the future. “I have one word for you, son: 
Brain-juices.” 
This lucid book constitutes the necessary orienta- 
tion to the flow of neurotransmitters from the mind 
to the soul. 
—Kevin Kelly 
e 
Back in the mid-1950s Robert Heath, chairman of the 
psychiatry department at Tulane Medical Center in New 
Orleans, found a mysterious protein in the blood serum 
of schizophrenics, which he baptized taraxein (from the 
Greek for “madness”). After experimenting with monkeys 
to make sure the procedure was safe, Heath injected the 
taraxein fraction into nonpsychotic prisoner-volunteers 
(using a comparable serum fraction from normal people 
for controls). Like characters in a mad-scientist horror 
movie — and, as a matter of fact, these experiments 
were filmed, like a kind of neuro-psychiatric film noir — 
the men who received the taraxein injections were 
plunged into instant psychosis. “Some hallucinated and 
had delusions and thought disorders,” Heath recalls. 
“Some became severely anxious and paranoid. Some 
were withdrawn and catatonic. An hour or so later, they 
went back to being entirely normal.” 
5 
In the 1940s MacLean became fascinated with the 
“limbic storms” suffered by patients with temporal-lobe 
The River That 
Flows Uphill 
William H. Calvin 
1986; 528 pp. 
$12.95 
($15.95 postpaid) from: 
Sierra Club Store Orders 
730 Polk Street 
San Francisco, CA 94109 
800/638-6460 
or Whole Earth Access 
This is good science, well presented. Most impor- 
tantly, it illuminates that peculiar function of the 
human brain: to be conscious of consciousness. 
Neurobiologist William Calvin was part of several 
rafts full of scientists on a boat trip down the Colo- 
rado River through the Grand Canyon. Their con- 
versations — relaxed, witty, skillfully rendered — 
teach as much about river rafting, Southwest an- 
thropology, and respect for Nature as about neuro- 
physiology, biology and evolution. The Grand 
The face of pleasure: Candace Pert's autoradiographic map of opiate 
receptor sites on a rat brain. The receptors, activated with an injected 
opiate drug "labeled" with radioactivity, glow in this cross-section of 
brain as shades of white and gray aganist the unactivated black 
background. The complex pattern of receptor density and distribution 
provides hints about the way the brain “filters” reality. (Courtesy of 
Dr. Candace Pert, NIMH.) 
epilepsy. “During seizures,” he recalls, “they'd have this 
Eureka feeling all out of context — feelings of revelation, 
that this is the truth, the absolute truth, and nothing but 
the truth.” All on its own, without the reality check of the 
neocortex, the limbic system seemed to produce sensa- 
tions of deja-vu or jamais-vu, sudden memories, waking 
dreams, messages from God, even religious conver- 
sions. 
“You know what bugs me most about the brain?” 
MacLean says suddenly. “It's that the limbic system, this 
primitive brain that can neither read nor write, provides 
us with the feeling of what is real, true, and important.” 
Canyon almost forces a broad, long-term point of 
view: the marks of geological evolution are every- 
where. 
The concept of the evolutionary ratchet is a com- 
mon thread throughout the book: geographic isola- 
tion causes speciation, conserving new traits. 
Something new and different results. Particularly 
tasty are the incidental benefits of natural selection 
that survival traits have made possible. Feathers 
let birds fly, though the feather’s warmth would 
have been sufficient to give them an evolutionary 
edge. In people, the evolution of the brain (learning 
sequencing operations to hunt and throw, for ex- 
ample) lets us laugh, make music, and produce 
complex arguments — of which this book is a fine 
example. 
— Matthew McClure 
¢ 
“We neurobiologists want to know not only what the 
‘brain programs’ are, but how the brain machinery oper- 
ates them. The Artificial Intelligence folk figure that if 
they can postulate a program that seems to do the trick, 
The Oxford 
Companion 
to the Mind 
Richard L. Gregory, Editor 
1987, 450 pp. 
$45 
($49.95 postpaid) from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
201/796-8000 
or Whole Earth Access 
Of all the professors who write on brains and psy- 
chology for general readers, Richard Gregory is 
surely one of the most articulate. A founder of the 
cognitive cognoscenti and the artificial intelligentsia 
(except the British more reasonable call it “ma- 
chine intelligence”), he is remarkably knowledge- 
able about nuts-and-bolts neurophysiology and 
clinical matters as well. So when | heard that he 
was putting together this not-quite-encyclopedia of 
1001 entries, | was delighted with the prospect. 
Most contributors are British, but the subjects 
selected are of universal interest. Noam Chomsky 
writes on his own theory of language; the late 
Norman Geschwind on language areas in the 
brain; and the late Alexander Luria on neurolin- 
guistics. All are disappointingly “basic,” containing 
little of the exciting 1980s language contributions 
from brain stimulation and PET scans. But the 
sections on brain imaging (CT, NMR-MRI, and 
PET) are up-to-date and perfectly pitched for the 
general reader. Many entries have.some biblio- 
graphic leads. 
This isn’t a book you read seriatim; there are many 
cross-references to other entries. And since many 
read like accessible essays, it is a book that | find 
myself sampling constantly for pleasure. You might 
buy it as a dictionary-encyclopedia reference work, 
but you'll read it like a magazine. 
— W. H. Calvin 
then they can build a hardware computer that will mimic 
the actions of the mind, running the same program using 
silicon chips rather than wet and unreliable nerve cells,” 
| replied, pausing for a drink from my canteen. 
“We neurobiologists work up from the bottom much of 
the time, trying to fathom the computation processes of 
the building blocks. We're constantly coping with parallel 
processing, a notion which is still novel in Al. | happen to 
think that the Al types are missing the boat, by trying to 
ignore the unreliable nature of the individual cells, the 
real brain's computing elements. Instead of trying to 
work around jittery cells by using reliable pigeonhole 
computers, unreliable cells should be seen as the es- 
sence of the brain’s way of doing things, just as sex's 
institutionalized randomness is the essence of how 
evolution has done more and more elaborate things. But 
philosophically, both neurobiologists and the Al folk start 
from the premise that the mind can be explained, that it 
isn't beyond understanding. And most of us would as- 
sume that mind is going to emerge from a lucky combi- 
nation of more elementary ‘dumb’ processes.” 
