180 
THE MEDIA LAB 
The Media Lab 
(Inventing the Future at MIT) 
Stewart Brand 
1987; 285 pp. 
$10 
($12 postpaid) from: 
Viking Penguin Books, Inc. 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
E. Rutherford, NJ 07073 
800/631-3577 
or Whole Earth Access 
As we speak, the once-separate galaxies of com- 
puters, publishing, and broadcasting are melding 
into each other with a great deal of muttering, 
armwaving, and hustling of new hardware. At the 
confluence is MIT’s radical technology department, 
the Media Lab, which is betting multimillions that it 
can steer the collision into a cohesive whole: per- 
haps a mega-combo of telephone/video/audio/ 
simulation/newspaper that is uniquely tailored to 
each individual. The goal, as the Media Lab sees 
it, is to let the audience take over. At stake is the 
major source of wealth in the future — entertain- 
ment/news. 
Sounds like an exciting place to visit. Trouble is, 
the Media Lab’s work is spread vexingly thin since 
its range is so wide. When | was there | came 
away with unfocussed glimmers of vague, half- 
understood somethings. Stewart Brand, founder of 
the Whole Earth Catalog, spent a year hanging 
out there, writing the ultimate tour of the Lab that 
everyone would like, but can never get. As you 
might expect from Stewart, there is a meta-level to 
the book: the media laboratory that our world has 
become. He envisions supremely individualized 
connections with appliances that would “know the 
user so intimately that the dialogue between ma- 
chine and human would bring about ideas unrealiz- 
able by either partner alone.” Stewart's astute and 
rigorously researched insights are the only aerial 
view of this uncertain landscape so far. | view this 
book as philosophical documentation for the practi- 
cal examples paraded in Signal. 
— Kevin Kelly 
¢ 
Students and professors at the Media Laboratory write 
papers and books and publish them, but the byword of 
this grove of academe is not “Publish or Perish.” In Lab 
parlance it’s “Demo or Die” — make the case for your 
idea with an unfaked performance of it working at least 
once, or let somebody else at the equipment. 
¢ 
Want to know where the action in a culture is? Watch 
where new language is turning up and where lawyers 
collect, usually in that sequence. 
o 
Me: “Do you have a standard timeline for when machine 
intelligence catches up with human intelligence and goes 
rolling past?” 
Minsky: “Yeah. Between 100 and 300 years. Intelligent 
evolution is unprecedented. Nobody’s ever seen one. So 
in a few hundred years it could do trillions of years of 
ordinary slow evolution.” 
Me: “And make enormous mistakes.” 
The original “Talking Head,” circa 1979, had gimbals to replicate 
head movement. It would enable five people, in widely separated 
locations, to meet around a highly intimate “virtual” conference table. 
At each of the five locations there would be one real person and four 
video faces representing real people, glancing at each other, nodding 
or shaking their head, able to converse with a high degree of nuance. 
The first creatures created for the Vivarium were 
radio- and computer-controlled blimps that pre- 
tended to be fish, swimming around in the Media 
Lab’s atrium. The blimps had rudimentary sensors 
that helped them orient in relation to walls, each 
other, and “food” (electricity). With the help of some 
blue light a classroom was spectacularly trans- 
formed into an ocean where child and “fish” become 
collaborators in a shared experiment. 
Minsky: “That's the trouble. There’s no time to iron out 
the bugs. It might fill up the universe with styrofoam or 
something because it had some wrong theory about how 
the cosmos needs a shock absorber.” Suddenly | saw a 
Vivarium as a swell place to work out some of these 
problems, rather than in the world. 
® 
If, as alleged, the only real freedom of the press is to 
own one, the fullest realization of the First Amendment is 
being accomplished by technology, not politics. 
5 
While computers probe and imitate the “society of mind,” 
they are also shaping the mind of society. Computers 
and communications have already blended so far that 
they are one activity, still without a verb to express what 
it does. We don’t even have a word for nervous activity 
in the body — it's not “thinking,” “sensing,” or “talking.” 
All the chemical and energy activities in a body (or a 
society) have a word for their sum action — “metabo- 
lism” — but there is no equivalent word for the sum of 
communi-cations in a system. The lack of a word signals 
a deeper ignorance. We don't know what consti- 
tutes healthy communications. 
4 
When | mentioned to Jerome Wiesner that | was 
shifting my work environment from one kind of 
personal computer to another, he commiser- 
ated, “I think that nobody should have to learn a 
new machine after the age of twenty-seven.” It’s 
not just what you have to learn, it’s what you 
have to teach the machine. More powerful 
machines require more teaching. That's some- 
thing the Media Lab would like to reverse: more 
powerful machines should be able to learn from 
you on their own. 
The counter-intuitive use of blurring, called anti-aliasing or 
Fuzzy Fonts, makes text more readable on computer 
screens. The technique was pioneered in 1972 at the 
Architecture Machine 
Group (a predecessor 
of the Media Lab) but 
ignored by industry 
until 1987. You lose 
sharpness by intro- 
ducing shades of grey 
instead of sticking 
with strict black & 
white, but you gain 
resolution, It is 
dramatically less tiring 
to read Fuzzy Font 
text. 
