Out of the Inner Circle 
(A Hacker's Guide to 
Computer Security) 
Bill Landreth 
with Howard Rheingold 
1985; 230 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Microsoft Press 
10700 Northup Way 
Box 97200 
Bellevue, WA 98009 
800/242-7737 
or Whole Earth Access 
The intent of this book is to give an introduction to 
how crackers (hackers who crack into systems) 
work. | thoroughly enjoyed it, but since it is not a 
step-by-step tutorial, it left me wanting more details 
on nearly everything it covers. But if you're inter- 
ested in what makes hackers crack, and want a 
very useful glimpse into the subculture that makes 
almost everyone in the Establishment nervous, 
Out of the Inner Circle is excellent. 
Among the specific methods Landreth outlines are 
the “hack-Hack”; the decoy; direct access to mem- 
ory; rapid-fire attacking the computer to trick it into 
thinking you have legitimate access; becoming a 
remote sysop; using a trapdoor; the Trojan horse; 
logic bombs; and worm programs. Anyone with 
more than a passing interest in computer security 
should be familiar with all these techniques, and 
2600 
Emmanuel Goldstein, 
Editor 
$15/year 
(four issues) from: 
2600 Subscription 
Department 
P.O. Box 752 
Middle Island, NY 
11953-0752, 516/751-2600 
My favorite newsletter is 2600, which bills itself as 
‘the hacker quarterly.” With concrete information 
and delightful detail, its editors explain the intrica- 
cies of the phone system, the VMS operating sys- 
tem, satellite jamming, and other subjects of inter- 
est to those who believe information should be free 
and flow without barrier. Some of the most interest- 
ing features are the news roundups whose de- 
scriptions are quite inspiring. If you’re a phone 
phreak or a potential hacker, this newsletter is 
definitely for you. | love it. 
— Matthew McClure 
¢ 
AUTOVON is an acronym for “AUTOmatic VOice Net- 
work,” and is a single system with DCS (Defense Com- 
munications System). It is presently mostly based on 
electro-mechanical switches, and is a world-wide net- 
work for “unsecure” voice communication for the DOD 
and several related agencies... . 
How to Participate: You can easily alter your touch tone 
Landreth’s explanation’s 
are quite clear, general 
descriptions of how they 
work. 
— Matthew McClure 
Sd 
Very few people, from the 
designers and operators of 
large systems to the investi- 
gators and law-enforcement 
officers who deal with hack- 
ers, understand what hack- 
ers are trying to do, much 
less why they're trying to do 
it. During my own trial, for 
example, the judge decided 
to postpone sentence until 
after | had undergone psy- 
chiatric evaluation. 
HAS HIGH 
SECURITY? 
THE 
HACKER'S 
HIDDEN 
TASKS 
What makes hackers hack? 
Why are they so dedicated? 
Why do they spend so much 
of their own time on other 
people’s computer systems? 
And just what do they think 
they are trying to accom- 
plish? It is not rare for a 
hacker to put in a sixty- or seventy-hour work week 
(without getting paid, of course). And these are not 
empty hours, filled by staring out the window. Hacking is 
a challenge and a game of wits, and during their work 
sessions, hackers are using all the skills and ingenuity 
phone to make it have the extra column that utilizes the 
1633 Hz tone. Standard Bell phones have two tone 
generating coils, each of which can generate four tones. 
This gives you sixteen possibilities of which you only use 
twelve. This leaves you with access to the four unex- 
plored tones. A standard way to modify the touch tone 
phone is to install a switch to tell it whether to use the 
silver box tones or not. When the switch is in one posi- 
tion, you will get normal tones, in the other you'll get 
1633 Hz tones. Bell calls these buttons A, B, C, and D, 
while the Army named them, from highest to lowest, 
Flash Override, Flash, Immediate, and Priority. All other 
calls are called Routine if no precedence button is 
pushed... 
. 
5 
When you enter an authorization code to access a long 
distance company’s network there are a few things that 
happen. The authorization code number you enter is 
cross-referenced in a list of codes. When an unassigned 
code is received the switch will print a report consisting 
of the authorization code, the date and time, and the 
incoming trunk number (if known) along with other mis- 
cellaneous information. 
When an authorization code is found at the end of a 
billing cycle to have been abused, one of two things is 
done. Most of the time the code is removed from the 
database and a new code is assigned. But there are 
times when the code is flagged “abused” in the switch. 
This is very dangerous. Your call still goes through, but 
there is a bad code report printed. (This is similar to an 
unassigned code report, but it also prints out the number 
being called.) You have no way to know that this is 
happening but the IC has plenty of time to have the call 
traced. This just goes to show that you should switch 
codes on a regular basis and not use one until it dies. 
CLEAR 
SCREEN 
USER 
USER 
CREATE A 
SECOND OPERATOR 
ACCOUNT 
SET PASSWORD 
TO “HACK” 
CALL MEMORY 
AVAILABLE 
they have developed. Hack- 
ers enjoy what they do. 
¢ 
Normally, two steps are 
involved in the basic meth- 
ods hackers use to gain 
unauthorized access to 
computers: First the hacker 
obtains an account. That's 
the easy part — sometimes 
it's as easy as calling and 
asking for one (posing as a 
university student, perhaps); 
more usually, it means 
getting account names from 
bulletin boards, company 
phone lists, or trash bins. 
. 
. 
maybe using a friend's or 
relative’s account on The 
Source. ... 
HAS ENOUGH 
MEMORY? 
It is the password that is a 
secret. Therefore, a hacker's 
second step involves ways 
of faking or discovering 
passwords. This is one of 
the areas in which lax secu- 
rity makes the hacker’s job 
easier than it need be: Well- 
chosen passwords that are easy to remember, but 
difficult for a hacker to guess (yes, there are such 
things), and educated users who keep their secret pass- 
words secret are a very effective defense at this level of 
security. 
¢ 
A couple of years ago while listening to the local voice- 
paging channel on my scanner, | figured that anybody 
could just call one of those phone numbers and get their 
message on the air. So after calling some numbers 
above and below my friend's voice pager number | found 
that this was true — | heard myself on the scanner. 
Problem was, you had to listen to everyone else’s mes- 
sages, too. Some kind of selective tone decoder for the 
scanner was in order — the cheaper the better. Also, 
some kind of tone-encoding system was needed that 
anyone had access to, so why not use the touch tones? 
After some experimenting, | found that a touch tone 
decoder chip with two 2N2222 transistors and a few 
resistors and capacitors (about $10 total at Radio Shack) 
could be used to decode the * (or any other) touch tone 
from the scanner’s audio section and switch the audio 
onto the speaker. It all fit quite nicely into a matchbox- 
sized container taped to the back of my portable scan- 
ner, and could be powered by the scanner batteries. 
There is one trick which comes in handy. To get free 
directory assistance (DA) from a Customer Owned Coin 
Operated Telephone (COCOT), you dial O-NPA-555- 
1212. 
If the NPA is within the New York City area (212, 
516, 718), the call speeds straight through to DA. (Note: 
the caller must also be within that area.) Most COCOTs 
let you dial 0+ without asking for money, so your DA call 
would be free. Similar variations of this trick probably 
work in other parts of the country. 
® 
This command creates a file in your account which will 
subsequently capture all the activity occurring at your 
terminal. Any keystrokes, any commands, all the actions 
done at the keyboard will be logged in the file as well as 
going on at the terminal as normal. 
PHREAKERS 
77 
