Independent 
Filmmaking 
Lenny Lipton 
1972,1983; 445 pp. 
$13.95 
($15.35 postpaid) from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
800/223-2336 
or Whole Earth Access 
My quick survey of film schools shows Lipton’s 
book still the favorite how-to; it’s become a kind of 
institution. Video freaks may find Lipton’s views 
condescending, but he has added a useful section 
called “Video for the Filmmaker.” This book 
remains technically astute and entertaining to read. 
—Tom Schneider 
o 
It's usually quite easy to produce smooth motion on the 
screen hand-holding a camera with a lens half the 
normal focal length, say 5 to 7 millimeters for 8mm and 
super 8, or 10 millimeters for 16mm. Short focal lengths 
also help to take the place of a tripod you're trying to 
hold steady, with no intended motion. With practice, it's 
very nearly possible to reproduce the steadiness of a 
dolly or tripod mounted camera. Accomplishing this is 
really no great feat. To help hold a motionless shot 
steady, you can lean against anything available, a wall 
for example, but really, this isn’t necessary. 
Why use a tripod, if it doesn’t matter? The traditional 
Off-Hollywood 
David Rosen 
and Peter Hamilton 
1987; 298 pp. 
$30 
postpaid from: 
The Independent 
Feature Project 
21 West 86th Street 
New York, NY 10024 
Nearly everyone who read the original script for El 
Norte said the film could not be made. After two 
years of unsuccessful fundraising, filmmakers 
Anna Thomas and Greg Nava became totally 
discouraged and decided their project would never 
be completed. Weeks later American Playhouse 
producers opted to back the film. El Norte went on 
to be the most successful foreign-language film 
produced and directed by American filmmakers, 
grossing $5.5 million. 
Off-Hollywood tells the stories behind the making 
The Steadicam. Expensive and cumbersome, it is the last word in 
smooth hand-held cinematography, and has been used to good 
effect on many features. (Cinema Products) 
advice for filmmaking is to use a tripod whenever 
possible. My practice is to avoid using a tripod whenever 
possible. 
of eleven American independent features, 
including El Norte, with an emphasis on 
distribution and marketing. Compiled by the 
Sundance Institute and the Independent Feature 
Project, it’s designed to increase filmmakers’ savvy 
in promoting their films. The documentation of the 
financing, production, distribution, marketing, and 
promotion of the films is thorough and specific. 
Filmmakers tell what worked, what didn’t, and why. 
The logistics of making a feature film are daunting. 
Off-Hollywood wants independent filmmakers not 
just to succeed, but to excel. The quality of 
American filmmaking is at stake. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
¢ 
Andre succeeded despite the minimum amount of 
predetermination of its future audience. It is an example 
of a concept which drove its creators and its producer to 
complete a work because of the power of the idea, 
rather than of any supposed fit between the idea and the 
audience. Yet, in a general sense, its expected audience 
was the art-film moviegoer, particularly one who would 
be attracted to a work directed by Louis Malle. 
The success of Andre invites a consideration of the 
relationship between the great influence of the major 
critics and the functioning of word-of-mouth. Most of the 
principals agree that without an accolade from Ebert and 
Siskel, My Dinner With Andre would have failed to 
attract enough of an audience at its New York opening 
run to allow word-of-mouth to develop. 
FILM MAKING 
The Bloop. Such an appliqué 
may be cut from special 
blooping tape 
Spliced optical track often makes a popping sound at the splice point. 
The way to eliminate this is called blooping. You make a small oval or 
wedge shape over the splice with ink. This makes an inaudible sound 
that covers the sound of the splice. You can use especially 
formulated blooping ink, or you can try metallic blooping tape, cut to 
the shape of a flat parallelogram, and pressed directly over the 
splice. 
Feature Filmmaking 
at Used-Car Prices 
Rick Schmidt 
$8.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Viking-Penguin 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
800/631-3577 
or Whole Earth Access 
A painfully honest autobiographical account of the 
art and emotional adventure of putting out low- 
budget feature films for about $6000. Surviving his 
fourth film, author Rick Schmidt eagerly reels off 
his sobering, trench-hardened advice for the naive 
hopeful. It’s a path for a warrior. 
—Kevin Kelly 
¢ 
My friends and | had discovered early in our filmmaking 
careers that it seemed as difficult to make a five-minute 
film as a seventy-minute film, and it was often just as 
hard to get $200 as $2,000. The difference was that with 
a feature you had at least a chance to sell it somewhere 
and make some money back. 
¢ 
If you are still hesitant about trying to write your film, one 
possible way to break the “block” is to speak about your 
film into a recorder. Once you have described your 
concept and talked about the characters, location(s) you 
envision, and mood you'd like to achieve, remembering 
to give your story a beginning, middle, and end, spend 
$50 to have a typist transcribe your words on paper. 
When the typist hands you twenty pages of rough 
“scripting,” you will realize that you can create a recipe 
for your feature film. 
¢ 
The benefits of showing your film at in-person shows 
greatly outweigh the difficulties. You are able to show 
your film to an interested audience and then hear their 
feedback during the in-person discussion following the 
screening. 
