HACKERS 
Programmers at Work 
Susan Lammers 
1986; 385 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.95 postpaid) from: 
Microsoft Press 
Attn.: Consumer Sales 
16011 NE 36th Way, 
Box 97017 
Redmond, WA 98073-9717 
206/882-8080 
or Whole Earth Access 
One of the most impressive 
things about computer hackers 
is that, in their drive to get more 
out of their hardware, they 
exploit fresh ways of viewing 
problems. This outlook is fre- 
quently enlightening on sub- 
jects that have nothing to do 
with computers. So in a sense, 
each of the 19 interviews that 
Susan Lammers has conducted 
with some of the major pioneers 
in microcomputing is more than 
just a story of how code-hack- 
ers actually program. Each is 
like a kind of Crackerjack box 
— the Utterly Disarming, Fre- 
quently Astonishing Insight is 
the prize. There’s also a fasci- 
nating appendix where we see 
actual code, worksheets, etc. of 
these wizards. 
— Steven Levy 
Sd 
Interviewer: What do you perceive as aesthetically 
beautiful or pleasing in either the listing or the structure 
of the algorithms when you look at a particular program? 
Hackers 
Steven Levy 
1984; 448 pp. 
$4.50 
($5.25 postpaid) from: 
Dell Books 
P. O. Box 1000 
Pinebrook, NJ 07058-01000 
800/932-0070 
or Whole Earth Access 
Steven Levy is to computer history what Barbara 
Tuchman is to the 14th Century. He tells how pro- 
gramming changes people, how programmers 
created a subculture, and how that subculture 
changed the whole culture. 
— Art Kleiner 
Sd 
Something new was coalescing around the TX-0: a new 
way of life, with a philosophy, an ethic, and a dream. 
The Hacker Ethic: 
Access to computers — and anything which might teach 
you something about the way the world works — should 
Brickdin’s onginal command diagram for VisiCalc from 
(LAGE 
| 
Simonyi: | think the listing gives the same pleasure that 
you get from a clean home. You can just tell with a 
glance if things are messy — if garbage and unwashed 
dishes are lying about — or if things are really clean. It 
may not mean much. Just because a house is clean, it 
might still be a den of iniquity! But it is an important first 
impression and does say something about the program. 
I'll bet you that from ten feet away | can tell if a program 
is bad. | might not guarantee that it is good, but if it looks 
bad from ten feet, | can guarantee that it wasn’t written 
with care. And if it wasn’t written with care, it’s probably 
not beautiful in the logical sense. 
{ 
a 
So te 
me tee 
led toe 5 EON 
ne ROOT 
Zim 
—_— 
ene 
oe ———— 
weep, reper frm ol ih Meyel 
91978, 1786 Dorel S. 
Bricicen 
Bricklin’s original command diagram for VisiCalc (the original elec- 
tronic spreadsheet) from November, 1978. The diagram was written 
on a piece of spreadsheet paper (hence the grid in the program) that 
Bricklin used in business school. 
be unlimited and total. Always yield to the Hands-on 
Imperative! 
Hackers believe that essential lessons can be learned 
about the systems — about the world — from taking 
things apart, seeing how they work, and using this 
knowledge to create new and even more interesting 
things. They resent any person, physical barrier, or law 
that tries to keep them from doing this. 
All information should be free. 
Mistrust Authority — Promote Decentralization. 
The best way to promote this free exchange of informa- 
tion is to have an open system, something which pre- 
sents no boundaries between a hacker and a piece of 
information or an item of equipment that he needs in his 
quest for knowledge, improvement, and time on-line. 
The last thing you need is a bureaucracy. 
Hackers should be judged by their hacking, not bogus 
criteria such as degrees, age, race, or position. 
You can create art and beauty on a computer. 
Computers can change your life for the better. 
fee 2A? OMAN IP evens 
od 
Interviewer: What did you intend the character of Pac 
Man to be like? 
Itwani: Pac Man’s character is difficult to explain even to 
the Japanese — he is an innocent character. He hasn’t 
been educated to discern between good and evil. He 
acts more like a small child than a grown-up person. 
Think of him as a child learning in the course of his daily 
activities. If someone tells him guns are evil, he would be 
the type to rush out and eat guns, even the pistols of 
policemen who need them. He’s indiscriminate because 
he’s naive. But he learns from experience that some 
people, like policemen, should have 
pistols and he can't eat just any 
pistols in sight. 
. 
“ 
Interviewer: What goals and work rules 
did you set when you were working on 
Framework? 
Carr: One piece of advice | had been 
given was to hold off programming for as 
long as possible. Once you've got a 
corpus of code building up, it’s hard to 
change direction. It sets like concrete. 
So | held off for as long as | could, but | 
couldn't hold the design in my head 
forever. 
a 
, \ 
 Frankston:. .. If you cannot explain a 
program to yourself, the chance of a 
eh ./ 
computer getting it right is pretty small. 
qs 
= 
Simonyi: The first step in programming is 
imagining. Just making it crystal clear in 
my own mind what is going to happen. In 
this initial stage, | use paper and pencil. | 
just doodle, | don’t write code. | might draw a few boxes 
or a few arrows, but it’s just mostly doodles, because the 
real picture is in my mind. | like to imagine the structures 
that represent the reality | want to code. 
Once | have the structure fairly firm and clear in my 
mind, then | write the code. | sit down at my terminal — 
or with a piece of paper in the old days — and write it. 
Sd 
Interviewer: You seem to scorn complexity. When you 
design a system, do you strive for simplicity? 
Lampson: Right. Right everything should be made as 
simple as possible. But to do that you have to master 
complexity. 
Interviewer: In practical terms, how do you achieve that? 
Lampson: There are some basic techniques to control 
complexity. Fundamentally, | divide and conquer, break 
things down, and try to write.reasonably precise descrip- 
tions of what each piece is supposed to do. That be- 
comes a sketch of how to proceed. When you can’t 
figure out how to write a spec, it's because you don't 
understand what's going on. Then you have two choices: 
Either back off to some other program you do under- 
stand, or think harder. 
Also, the description of the system shouldn't be too big. 
You may have to think about a big system in smaller 
pieces. It's somewhat like solving problems in mathe- 
matics: You can write books that are full of useful hints, 
but you can’t give an algorithm. 
23 
