CYBERNETICS 
Cybernetic 
American Society for 
Cybernetics, Eds. 
$50/year for 2 issues 
and membership 
Back issues worth ordering: 
$10; Vol. 1, Issue 1; 
1985; 147 pp. 
$15; Vol.. 2, Issue 1; 
1986; 80 pp. 
American Society for 
Cybernetics 
c/o Department of 
Engineering Management 
Old Dominion University 
Norfolk, VA 23529-0248 
Cybernetics is a very loose approach to an even 
looser subject: the understanding of whole 
systems. The closer one comes to the core of a 
large system, the more it appears to be a hall of 
mirrors, vanishing into self-reference. Nothing 
governs it, everything governs it. 
This infrequent magazine stalks whole understand- 
ing through a path of the heart. Contributors have 
no idea what they are hunting for, only that it is as 
large and ungraspable as spirit. 
— Kevin Kelly 
a 
A subtle thing happens when everything is visible: the 
display becomes reality. — David Canfield Smith 
—Cybernetic | 
¢ 
The old idea of treating a psychiatric symptom was 
based on the medical notion of curing a part of the body. 
The illness was in some spatially-defined, out there, unit. 
We can no longer say that it is in the family, nor is it in 
the individual. It is in the heads or nervous systems of 
everyone who has a part in specifying it. 
Figure 3: The observer by stepping in the synaptic gap 
defines his or her domains of distinctions as the envi 
ronment of the nervous system. For the observer there 
is a flower in the environment; for the dynamics of sta- 
tes of the nervous-system .as a closed neuronal network 
there is no flower, only a synaptic gap that is not a gap. 
The structures of the environment that the observer sees 
constitute only orthogonal perturbations for the sensors, 
not an input to the dynamics of states of the nervous 
system. Arrows like in Fig. A. 
Have a psychotic 
experience; have 
another psychotic 
experience, and get 
over one of them. 
The old epistemology implies that the 
system, psyche, family structure, the gene 
— what have you, contains or creates the 
problem. The new epistemology implies 
that the problem creates the system. 
Repeat that, underline that. The problem 
creates the system. The problem is 
whatever the origional distress consisted 
of, plus whatever the distress, on its merry 
way through the world, has managed to 
Stick to itself. The problem is the meaning 
system created by the distress, and the 
treatment unit is everyone who is 
contributing to that meaning system. 
—Cybernetic Il 
Cybernetics of 
Cybernetics 
Heinz Von Foerster, Editor 
1974, 1986; 523 pp. 
$17.50 
($20.50 postpaid) from: 
Spartan Book Store 
Customer Service 
San Jose State University 
San Jose, CA 95191 
408/924-1800 
This book was originally made possible through a 
grant from the Point Foundation, and like most of 
the things which are influenced by the Whole Earth 
folks it’s eclectic, interesting, not as polished as it 
might be and a trifle uneven. In other words, 
human and exciting. It started as a year long 
(1973-74) class project at the Biological Computer 
Lab at the University of Illinois at Urbana. The 
students collected articles, definitions, word 
pictures called “conceptual entailment structures” 
and lumped them together with pictures, and 
photographs and called it a book. Articles range 
from classics to student pieces, but the author 
index reads like a who’s who in information and 
cybernetics: Ross Ashby, Gregory Bateson, 
Stafford Beer, Stewart Brand, Jurgen Habermas, 
Garrett Hardin, Ivan Illich, John Lilly, Humberto 
Maturana, Warren Mcculloch, Gordon Pask, Bill 
Powers, G. Spencer-Brown, Francisco Varela, 
Heinz Von Foerster and Norbert Wiener to name a 
few. Unfortunately the students were experiment- 
ing and placed the Table of Contents and the 
Index in the center of the book making it hard to 
use. I’ve marked my pages with a marker which 
eases but doesn’t solve the problem. The new 
5 
GRELLING’S PARADOX. Call an adjective “autological” 
if it describes itself. “Short” is short, and polysyllabic” is 
polysyllabic, so “short” and “polysyllabic” are autological. 
Let “heterological” mean “not autological”. “Long and 
“monosyllabic” are heterological. Is “heterological” 
heterological? 
—Cybernetic | 
When the penis is 
simply a means of 
pleasure among men 
alone, the exalted 
_ worth of the standard 
of value, the phallus, 
is devaluated. 
edition was brought out for the Cybernetic 
Systems Program at SUSU in a reduced size 
format but is still readable. 
—Elin Whitney Smith 
[Suggested by Rodney Donaldson] 
¢ 
Q. What is Cybernetics? 
A. | would like to call Cybernetics an offer. 
Q. What does Cybernetics offer? 
A. Cybernetics offers access to and interaction with 
complex systems in order that they may appear simple; 
to and with apparently simple systems in order that their 
complexity may be revealed. (B. Rebitzer) 
5 
The gentleman with the bowler hat insists that he is the 
sole reality, while every- 
thing else appears only 
in his imagination. 
However, he cannot 
deny that his imaginary 
universe is populated 
with apparitions that are 
not unlike himself. 
Hence, he has to 
concede that they them- 
selves may insist that 
they are the sole reality 
and everything else is 
only a concoction of 
their imagination. In that 
case their imaginary 
universe will be 
populated with 
apparitions, one of 
which may be he, the 
gentleman with the 
bowler hat. (Heinz Von 
Foerster) 
