The Whole World Is weteng 
(Mass Media in the Making 
& Unmaking of the New Left) 
Todd Gitlin 
1980; 327 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.45 postpaid) from: 
University of California Press 
2120 Berkeley Way 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
415/642-4247 
or Whole Earth Access 
Todd Gitlin is probably the country’s second-best 
observer (after Abbie Hoffman) of how media ma- 
nipulates, shapes, defines, and creates popular 
movements — and how those movements can turn 
the relationship around. Nobody involved with 
politics at any level should be without this book. 
—Tim Redmond 
® 
An opposition movement is caught in a fundamental and 
inescapable dilemma. If it stands outside the dominant 
realm of discourse, it is liable to be consigned to margin- 
ality and political irrelevance; its issues are domesti- 
cated, its deeper challenge to the social order sealed off, 
trivialized, and contained. If, on the other hand, it plays 
by conventional political rules in order to acquire an 
image of credibility — if, that is, its leaders are well- 
mannered, its actions well-ordered, and its slogans 
specific and “reasonable” — itis liable to be assimilated 
into the hegemonic political world view; it comes to be 
identified with narrow (if important) reform issues, and its 
oppositional edge is blunted. This is the condition of 
movements in all the institutions of liberal capitalism; one 
major site of the difficulty lies within the mass media. 
4 
A look at the other photos UPI sent out that day to its 
subscribers, including the Times, throws the Times’ 
choice into especially sharp relief. | retrieved the five 
other April 17 photos from UPI’s archives. Two show a 
mass of antiwar pickets carrying signs bearing readable 
slogans . . 
. ; one shows a large mass at the antiwar rally 
at the Washington monument; and the other two give an 
accurate sense of the degree to which the antiwar 
people outnumbered the counterdemonstrators. All five 
were, in formal terms, printable; the pictures of the 
picketers with their signs were elegantly composed, with 
high contrast and good formal balance. But the effect of 
the photo the Times chose was visually to equate the 
[Left} From the New York Times, Sunday, April 18, 1965, page 1. 
[Above] One of the April 17, 1965, photos sent out by United Press 
International and not chosen by the New York Times. Note the 
visible proportion between the antiwar demonstrators in the fore- 
ground and the few counterdemonstrtors in the background, across 
Pennsylvania Avenue. 
antiwar and right-wing demonstrations, and to give the 
impression — since the photographed segment of the 
two picket lines were identical in length — that they were 
equally large. 
The Geopolitics of Information 
(How Western Culture Dominates the World), Anthony 
Smith, 1980; 192 pp., $7.95 ($9.45 postpaid) from 
Oxford University Press, 16-00 Pollitt Drive, Fairlawn, NJ 
07410; 800/451-7556 or Whole Earth Access 
News stories about Africa, Asia, or South America 
rarely match what filters back through friends and 
acquaintances who have been there. It’s not so 
much deliberate censorship as it is the Western 
way of noticing and reporting, which makes non- 
Western cultures seem to disappear — even to 
themselves. The already slim chance for a devel- 
oping nation to evolve its own identity in media is 
further complicated by new computer and broad- 
cast technologies which by their nature ignore 
national and cultural boundaries. Even getting 
trained in programming or radio production usually 
means going to a developed country and picking 
up methods which clash with many 
of the world’s 
diverse communication customs. Here’s a well- 
written book of political analysis, spurred by recent 
U.N. debates about ownership and control of the 
world airwaves and data links. While tackling the 
problems of the Third World in the information age, 
the author also made me look freshly at my West- 
ern assumptions about what media should be 
like here. 
— Art Kleiner 
4 
When a European or American reporter goes to Asia or 
Africa and discovers “shortages,” “instability,” “corrup- 
tion,” “crisis,” he is often seeing the society in the light of 
the prior images of his own society. A shortage of spare 
parts which prevents the Westerner from driving about is 
not necessarily an abnormal deficiency in a society 
which is used to having to walk for twenty miles. A differ- 
ent aspect of this process can be discerned in the fa- 
mous agency reporter who always counts the Mercedes- 
Benzes at meetings of African political leaders as a per 
se sign of corruption; if, however, he were at a gathering 
called by the World Bank, the same reporter would 
probably not consider the numbers of Rolls-Royces or 
Mercedes a significant fact worthy of mention. The same 
INFORMATION IMPERIALISM 201 
The Media Monopoly 
Ben H. Bagdikian 
g 
1983; 282 pp. 
$10.95 
($11.83 postpaid) from: 
Harper & Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
800/242-7737 
. 
or Whole Earth Access 
Why is local news coverage so poor? Because it’s 
expensive (especially for chain newspapers), be- 
cause advertisers prefer the lifestyle-type coverage 
that’s taken over most papers, and because many 
newspapers have monopolies and don’t need local 
reporting to hook readers. Living with a lousy 
newspaper is like sleeping in a room with a cat 
litter box; after a while you don’t notice. This book 
tells how newspapers got so bad, and why maga- 
Zines take so few chances. Like other professional 
gadflies, Ben Bagdikian oversimplifies his case 
somewhat, but the stories he tells are themselves 
fascinating. It’s not a book to read unless you care 
passionately about periodicals, in which case it 
may spur you to create your own. There’s no other 
remedy in most places. Good luck. | —Art Kleiner 
e 
An important element is missing in the standard newspa- 
per histories of the late nineteenth century. Most stories. 
of “yellow journalism” and the wild circulation wars of 
Hearst and Pulitzer in New York and the newspaper 
gangs in Chicago are true. But they are mistakenly 
presented as the main reason newspapers became 
popular with ordinary citizens. Before mass advertising, 
however, papers succeeded solely because they 
pleased their readers. Readers were clustered in terms 
of their serious political and social ideas — some were 
conservative, some liberal, some radical — and they had 
religious or regional loyalties. Each paper tended to 
focus a great deal of its information on the preferences 
of its readers. Because papers were physically smaller, 
lacking mass advertising, they were cheaper to print. 
And because they appealed to the strong interests of 
their readers, subscribers paid more for newspapers as 
a percentage of average wages than they otherwise 
might have done. Because newspapers were cheaper to 
print, newspaper businesses could be started more 
easily, either when new communities arose or when 
existing papers did not satisfy the interests of some 
significant group in the community. The result was a 
wider spectrum of political and social ideas than the 
public gets from contemporary newspapers. The fre- 
quent excess among adversarial papers of the pastis a 
normal social cost of rigorous debate in a democracy. 
conflicts of perception work in the reporting of politics. 
Any African country is vulnerable to a coup d’état com- 
mitted by a small number of armed men; does this in 
itself constitute “instability,” or is it rather the common 
condition of governments which are attempting to con- 
struct new national entities out of territories which have 
been crudely carved from the geography of a defunct 
empire? When does a government become merely a 
“regime,” and by what criteria may it earn reclassification 
by Western journalists? What commodities have to be 
subject to scarcity — and in what geographical regions 
of a society — before they constitute a famine or eco- 
nomic dislocation? Scotch whisky? Chanel No. 5? Pet- 
rol? Bread? Rice? Bananas? 
