Understanding 
Computers 
and Cognition 
Terry Winograd and 
Fernando Flores 
1987; 207 pp. 
$12.95 postpaid from: 
Addison-Wesley 
Publishing Co. Inc. 
1 Jacob Way 
Redding, MA 01867 
1-800-447-2226 
What does it mean to understand something? 
This books tries to understand understanding. 
— Kevin Kelly 
[Suggested by Joel Trachtenberg] 
4 
Living systems are cognitive systems, and living, as a 
process, is a process of cognition. This statement is 
valid for all organisms, with and without a nervous 
system. 
a 
If we turn to computer systems, we see that for different 
people, engaged in different activities, the existence of 
objects and properties emerges in different kinds of 
breaking down. As | sit here typing a draft on a word 
processor, | think of words and they appear on my 
screen. There is a network of equipment that includes 
my arms and hands, a keyboard, and many complex 
devices that mediate between it and a screen. None of 
this equipment is present for me except when there is a 
breaking down. 
® 
Reflective thought is impossible without the kind of 
abstraction that produces blindness. The program is 
forever limited to working within the world determined by 
the programmer’s explicit articulation of possible objects, 
Continuing the Conversation 
Greg and Pat Williams, Editors. $8/year (4 issues) from: 
Hortideas, Route 1,Box 302, Gravel Switch, KY 40328 
606/332-7606. 
Continuing the conversation begun by the late 
Gregory Bateson, biologist, anthropologist, 
psychologist, epistemologist, and teacher. To him, 
these thickets of knowledge were sub-circuits in a 
larger loop which he helped identify—cybernetics. 
His finished work is frozen in books (see p. 205); 
his unfinished cybernetics is warmly pursued in this 
chummy, and sometimes academic, newsletter. 
— Kevin Kelly 
5 
DOLPHINS HAVE NO HANDS. Having no hands, they 
have not been able to change the world around them, so 
perhaps the effort that humans beings have put into 
civilization and the “taming” of the natural world has 
been put by dolphins into changing themselves. If 
something is amiss the human urge has been to fix 
something else, not oneself. This is a lot more difficult if 
you have no hands to do the fixing, so when something 
is amiss in the dolphin world . 
. 
. do dolphins “fix” 
themselves instead? Might dolphin language provide a 
contrasting mode of communication to set up against the 
subject/predicate structure of human language? 
—Janie Matrisciano 
A: Declare 
A: Request 
A: Counter 
B: Reject 
A: Withdraw 
A: Withdraw 
A: Withdraw 
/ 
Figure 5.1: The basic conversation for action 
os eject 
B: Withdraw 
properties, and relations among them. It therefore 
embodies the blindness that goes with this articulation. 
If we look at intelligence in a broader context, however, 
the inadequacies of a program with built-in permanent 
blindness begin to emerge. The essence of intelligence 
is to act appropriately when there is no simple pre- 
definition of the problem or the space of states in which 
to search for a solution. 
Systemantics 
(The Underground Text 
of Systems Lore: How Systems 
Really Work and How They Fail) 
John Gall 
1986; 319 pp. 
$14.95 postpaid from: 
General Systemantics Press 
3200 W. Liberty Road 
Ann Arbor, MI 48103 
or Whole Earth Access 
SUSTEMANTICS 
The pun in the title carries the important message 
that systems have ‘antics’—they act up, misbe- 
have, and have their own mind. The author is 
having fun with a serious subject, deciding rightly 
that a sense of humor and paradox are the only 
means to approach large systems. His insights 
come in the form of marvelously succinct rules of 
thumb, in the spirit of Murphy’s Law and the Peter 
Principle. This book made me 1) not worry about 
WHEN BIG SYSTEMS FAIL, THE FAILURE IS OFTEN BIG. 
WHOLE SYSTEMS 
It should be no surprise, then, that the area in 
which artificial intelligence has had the greatest 
difficulty is in the programming of common 
sense. It has long been recognized that it is 
much easier to write a program to carry out 
abstruse formal operations than to capture the 
common sense of a dog. This is an obvious 
consequence of Heidegger's realization that it 
is precisely is our “ordinary everydayness” that 
we are immersed in readiness-to-hand. A 
methodology by which formally defined tasks 
can be performed with carefully designed 
representations (making things present-at- 
hand) does not touch on the problem of 
blindness. We accuse people of lacking 
common sense precisely when some representation of 
the situation has blinded them to a space of potentially 
relevant actions. 
a 
A major goal of frame formalisms was to represent 
‘defaults’: the way things are typically, but not always. 
For example we might want to include the fact “Dogs 
bark” without precluding the possibility of a mute dog. 
understanding a colossal system—you can't, 2) 
realize you CAN change a system—by starting a 
new one, and 3) flee from starting new systems— 
they don’t go away. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Loree 
8 
COMPLEX SYSTEMS EXHIBIT UNEXPECTED BEHAVIOR. 
a 
We begin at the beginning, with the Fundamental 
Theorem: New systems mean new problems. 
® 
The system always kicks back—Systems get in the 
way—or, in slightly more elegant language: Systems 
tend to oppose their own proper functions. 
Sd 
Systems tend to malfunction conspicuously just after 
their greatest triumph. Toynbee explains this effect by 
pointing out the strong tendency to apply a previously 
successful strategy to the new challenge. The army is 
now fully prepared to fight the previous war. 
® 
A complex system that works is invariably found to have 
evolved from a simple system that worked. The parallel 
proposition also appears to be true: A complex system 
designed from scratch never works and cannot be made 
to work. You have to start over, beginning with a working 
simple system. 
