204 MIND / BODY 
Brain/Mind 
Bulletin 
Marilyn Ferguson, Editor 
$35/year 
(12 issues) from: 
Brain/Mind Bulletin 
P. O. Box 70457 
Pasadena, CA 91107 
818/577-7233 
Easily the handiest way to stay current with news 
and gossip on the soft psychology frontier. Despite 
success and a burgeoning of the subject matter, 
editor Marilyn Ferguson has admirably kept the 
bulletin’s format to a terse, packed six pages. 
— Stewart Brand 
4 
A startling new finding: Not only do the brain hemi- 
spheres switch dominance every 90 to 120 minutes 
throughout the day, but the sides of the body switch 
regularly in their dominance of sympathetic tone. 
Researchers sampled nervous-system transmitters by 
taking blood from both arms every 7.5 minutes for peri- 
ods of three to six hours. They found that the catechol- 
amines — dopamine, norepinephrine, epinephrine (adre- 
naline) — were more concentrated on one side or the 
other every two to three hours. 
® 
Pickering showed Persian real words and nonsense 
anagrams to English-speaking undergraduates who later 
drew them from memory. Neither subjects nor experi- 
menters knew which Persian character strings were 
real words until after the data had been collected and 
analyzed. 
Psychological and Behavioral 
Treatments 
(Vol. 1: For Disorders of the 
Heart and Blood Vessels) 
Mady Horning-Rohan 
and Steve E. Locke 
1985; 179 pp. 
$45 
($47.50 postpaid) 
(Vol. ll: For Disorders 
Associated with the 
Immune System) 
Steven E. Locke 
1986; 306 pp. 
$65 
($67.50 postpaid) 
Advances 
Harris Diensfrey, Editor 
$35/year 
(4 issues) 
All three from: 
This composite photograph of computer images shows the contrast- 
ing glucose uptake of individuals who scored well and poorly on a 
test of abstract reasoning. The brighter images correlate with poorer 
test scores. 
Subjects guessed the meaning of each word and rated 
their confidence in each guess. They reported feeling 
more confident in their guesses when they were viewing 
the true words, and their confidence ratings were twice 
as strong for high-frequency as compared to low-fre- 
quency words. 
Ay iif om 
ey DES ate p 
Nea ci Goes 
9 
TELLIER TOLL 
the editors provide the best available overview of 
our current knowledge of how thoughts and emo- 
tions can contribute to disease. 
Volume | reviews the contributions of the psyche to 
high blood pressure, heart disease, and vascular 
disorders. Volume II covers asthma and other 
allergic disorders, hemophilia and other blood 
disorders, diseases of the skin, and cancer. 
Vol- 
umes | and II contain 916 and 1,479 entries, re- 
spectively. One quibble: good as these books are, 
the prices. seem high. You may wish to pass this 
review on to your favorite librarian. 
As these excellent volumes make clear, the psy- 
chosomatic approach means not that you consider 
the body less, but that you study the psyche more. 
The editors and Institute for the Advancement of 
Health deserve our thanks for making this impor- 
tant information available in such a readable and 
useful form. 
The Omni Whole 
Mind Newsletter 
Judith Hooper, Editor 
$24/year 
(12 issues) from: 
Whole Mind 
P. O. Box 11208 
Des Moines, IA 50347 
800/341-7378 
| am of two minds about this one. On the down- 
side, it’s pricey, and published by Omni in hip sci-fi 
romanticism. On the upside, it’s concise, broad 
(though seldom deep), and stimulating. Covering 
the same territory which the venerable Brain/ 
Mind Bulletin has been prospecting for years, this 
one digs into the wide darkness we call the mind 
with more exuberance and gusto. They typically 
point me to something to follow up on, and bless 
‘em, they provide access to information. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Using themselves as guinea pigs, a handful of neuro- 
scientists at the State University of New York’s Health 
Science Center have been bravely exposing their brains 
to strong magnetic fields and observing what happens. 
In one experiment, the scientists placed a magnetic coil, 
shaped like a flat, palm-sized donut, over the backs of 
their heads when the occipital lobes interpret visual 
information. As the magnetic pulse beamed into the 
underlying brain tissue, it causes transient electrical 
changes in the scientists’ neurons. But what did 
it feel like? 
“It's very hard to describe,” says Paul Maccabee. In this 
experiment the pulse was applied about a tenth of a 
second after the scientists saw letters flash on a com- 
puter screen. “You're essentially blind,” Maccabee notes. 
Others described a strange confusion or perceptual 
blank. Essentially, the electromagnetic field had inter- 
rupted a brain process — in this case, visual processing 
— for a fraction of a second. 
oo 
On October 30, at the Kennedy Center in Washington, 
D.C., The National Symphony Orchestra will present a 
concert of music composed entirely by manic- 
depressives. 
The program, not yet set at this writing, will have many 
composers to choose from, including Berlioz, 
Tchaikovsky, Handel (so unpredictable he was said to 
have a “head full of maggots”), Schumann (who during a 
manic four-day period once wrote 130 songs), and 
songwriter Hugh Wolf (who avowed he “led the exis- 
tence of an oyster” for years at a time). 
® 
In a glass dish in a National Institutes of Health labora- 
tory in Washington lies what may be a harbinger of 21st- 
century brain repair. Saturated in a nutrient solution, a 
ae
smlig
clump of living brain cells from a rat fetus grows directly 
onto an electronic computer chip. 
The Institute for the Advancement of Health 
16 E. 53rd Street/5th Floor New York, NY 10022; 
212/832-8282 
The Institute’s scholarly magazine, Advances, has 
established a fine reputation for publishing many of 
the freshest and most exciting pieces on the mind- 
body connection. One of my favorite sections, 
The idea, says NIH neurobiologist Richard Wyatt, is to 
: 
Dees 
: 
‘ 
use the computer chip to “eavesdrop” on the electrical 
:
Those who criticize Western medicine for neglect- 
Second Reading,” reprints classic papers of the 
conversations that take place among the brain cells — to 
i 
ing the psychological aspects of illness will wel- 
past. Another, “Abstracts,” provides an extensive 
learn “the electric language of the brain.” Once that 
listing of recently-published studies in related 
come this excellent series of annotated bibliogra- 
fields. 
phies. By compiling well-written summaries of 
hundreds of journal articles in the fields covered, 
language is learned, the chip could also act as a bridge 
between brain cells, passing electrical signals back and 
— Tom Ferguson, M.D. 
forth like a sort of switchboard. 
