CD ROM: The New Papyrus (Vol. 1) 
Steve Lambert and Suzanne Ropiequet, Editors 
1986; 619 pp. 
$21.95 ($23.95 postpaid) 
Optical Publishing 
(Vol. 2) 
Suzanne Ropiequet, Editor 
1987; 358 pp. 
$22.95 
($26.42 postpaid) 
Interactive 
Multimedia (Vol. 3) | 
Sueann Ambron and 
Kristina Hooper, Editors 
1988; 352 pp. 
$24.95 
($28.42 postpaid) 
All from: 
Harper & Row 
Route 3 
P.O. Box 20-B 
Hagerstown, MD 21741 
800/638-3030 
Here comes privileged advance warning of new 
techniques for storing everything — pictures, text, 
video, programs — on the same kinds of compact 
discs (CDs) that have reshaped the audio industry 
during the last few years. You'll be able to fit a li- 
brary into a shoebox and to summon any part of it 
instantly. Whether or not the world wants this new 
medium is uncertain, but 
it threatens to go ahead 
and reshape publishing and libraries anyway. 
These three high-quality anthologies tell how. 
—Art Kleiner 
The third volume in this series is the most revolu- 
tionary. It’s goal is not merely to reshape how we 
store books, films, and music, but to reshape how 
we think of them. How do you scan a movie? What 
happens if it doesn’t have just a single ending? 
Can you make a book that learns as quickly as you 
do? Recent experiments are reported here. 
— Kevin Kelly 
a 
If you have a lot of text to distribute, such as a law li- 
brary, one CD ROM disc, costing $10 or less from the 
disc maker, stores as much material as microfiche cost- 
ing $150 to make or books costing $1000 to print. 
—The New Papyrus 
He’s carrying Bowker’s entire 
Books In Print Sen 
So is she. 
fly 
<& 
ACR! 
(e ai 
iat ti 
The Director's Kit. The student has chosen the desired costume and 
will transfer it to the stage area. When all the design elements are se- 
lected, the students can animate the scene.—Interactive Multimedia 
Sd 
Data Base Search Keys from Life 
Well, Hillary had certainly caught one this time. It was a 
large bug, over an inch long, with yellow and orange 
Stripes around its body, and two pairs of wings. Unfortu- 
nately for it, one of its wings was broken, which is how 
Hillary had caught up with it on the windowsill. 
“What is it, Mom?” 
“| don’t know, dear, but please don't wave it in my face. 
You should go look it up in the encyclopedia.” 
“OK,” said Hillary, and she ran to the family room and in- 
serted the encyclopedia disc into the reader. Holding her 
prize tightly in one hand, she zipped through the index 
until she came to the “I” section, and then slowly homed 
in, first on “insects,” then on the “insect identification” 
section. She had been there many times before to use 
the “build-an-insect” classification table. 
Hillary selected parts from the table that matched her 
new prey, and as she did so, the encyclopedia as- 
sembled, on screen, a reasonable likeness of the crea- 
ture in her hand. “This is a member of the sawfly family.” 
the encyclopedia said, just as the assembled illustration 
of the creature began to crawl around on a green, leafy 
background. “A primitive relative to the ant, bee, and 
wasp. Some species are considered pests because their 
larvae bore into the trunks of weakened or dead decidu- 
ous tree.” 
“Oh-oh, better tell Dad about that,” Hillary thought, and 
paused long enough to print out a picture of the sawfly 
and its caterpillar-like larva and a paragraph about its 
feeding habits. Her father had been wondering lately 
about the elm in the backyard. —/nteractive Multimedia 
CD-ROM Review 
Roger Strukhoff, Editor 
$34.97/year 
(12 issues) from: 
IDG Communications/ 
Peterborough 
80 Elm Street 
Peterborough, NH 03458 
603/924-9471 
The most readable of the many 
technical trade 
journals surfacing to cover this hardware intensive 
business. 
— Kevin Kelly 
CD-ROM 163 
The Electronic 
Whole Earth Catalog 
List price not fixed yet; probably under $150, certainly 
less than that at street price. Needs Macintosh and new 
Apple CD-ROM driver. From Brederbund Software, 17 
Paul Drive, San Rafael, CA 94903; 415/492-3200 
Our latest publishing experiment. Better than the 
book in several ways. It plays music, for starters. 
The best music-by-mail sources are rounded up, 
reviewed and classified in Whole Earth Catalog 
fashion. The user then navigates to a musical 
territory through a series of menus, until she 
arrives at samples of particular albums. Near the 
picture of the album cover is a note s ymbol, 
which if struck, unleashes a sample cut from the 
album. Ghanaian drums. Yemenite folk songs. 
Old jazz. About 20 seconds each. A mini-Whole 
Earth Music Catalog. 
This compact disc incarnation of the Catalog also 
has an active index allowing you to search for 
specifics a little better than in the book, which 
though it excelled for browsing was not con- 
structed for intense research. The Electronic 
Catalog’s index is hot-wired to the actual items 
So going from one to the other is like turning the 
next page — it’s right there. 
Like all the Catalogs, this one has fresh, accurate 
(read: expensive to do) ordering and access infor- 
mation. The bulk of text derives from the Essential 
Whole Earth Catalog, with additional material 
from our on-going periodical Whole Earth Review, 
and some from this book. 
Ways it’s not better than a book: It’s expensive, 
and runs on expensive equipment (due to get 
cheaper someday). And it’s desk bound. You can’t 
read it on the john, at least not gracefully. 
We think of it as the first of a co-evolving species. 
Your feedback, alterations, tinkering and modifica- 
tions are an essential half of its advancement. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Tim Oren (of 
Apple Com- 
puter, co-devel- 
oper for the CD) 
holds the first 
pressing of the 
Electronic 
Whole Earth 
Catalog. Like a 
top-40 hit, this 
disc is gold. Or- 
dinarily a com- 
pact disc is 
coated with alu- 
minum. Since 
there is a suspi- 
cion that alumi- 
num may only 
last decades, 
this one was 
gold-plated for 
posterity 
