A Parent’s Guide to 
Children’s Video 
Martha Dewing, Editor 
$14.97/year 
(6 issues) from: 
Children’s Video 
389 Fourth Street 
Brooklyn, NY 11215 
800/972-5858 
The premiere edition of this magazine 
is a valuable 
resource for parents — a buyer's guide to 
children’s videos. It’s the most inclusive listing of 
quality kidvid I’ve seen. It includes little-known 
educational and religious videos, shorts (both 
foreign and domestic), as well as feature films. | 
disagreed with some of the reviews — you 
800/525-0643 
The Complete 
Guide to 
Videocassette 
Movies 
Steven H. Scheuer, Editor 
1987; 671 pp. 
$19.95 
($22.95 postpaid) from: 
Henry Holt & Co. 
521 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10175 
212/886-9200 
or Whole Earth Access | 
I’ve rented my share of video dogs — predictable 
suspense, flat comedies, fizzled action movies. 
Video rental store catalogs hype all their movies 
equally — no help there in deciding what movie to 
take your chances on. And with the staggering 
array of videos to choose from, a good 
videocassette guide will save you money and 
disappointment. 
In a survey of six videocassette guides, | found this 
Video Review 
Roy Hemming, Editor 
$12/year (12 issues) from: 
Video Review, P.O. Box 919 
Farmingdale, NY 11737-0001; 
Carol Burnett Show sketches 
featuring Nora Desmond, Burnett's 
takeoff of the Gloria Swanson role in 
Sunset Boulevard, are among the 
best candidates for home taping. 
Stories and Fables 
probably will too — but they are informative and 
detailed. 
This issue sets a high standard. If later issues live 
up to it the magazine will provide an important 
service: helping parents monitor and guide their 
Where can the home viewer go for 
insight into the video market? Well, 
you might try Video Review. A combo 
trade journal and critic’s corner, this 
magazine covers both new product 
technology and new movie releases 
with the same wry sensibility. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
one to be the definitive consumer guide. The 
others either gave long, in-depth, witty and 
wonderful reviews of only a few movies or short, 
dull or unimaginative reviews of thousands of films. 
This guide, with over 5000 reviews, includes every 
theatrical and made-for-TV film available by fall 
1987 (except for pornography). Reviews include 
the right kind of honest detail to help decision 
THE GENERAL 
Betecond 
1927, USA 
Buster Keaton, Glenn Cavender, Jim Farley, Marian Mack. Directed by 
Buster Keaton. 81 min. 
QW Buster Keaton’s greatest comedy (along with Sherlock, Jr.) 
could be described as a balletic duet between Keaton and a 
runaway locomotive. Buster plays a would-be Confederate who tries 
to win his train back from a platoon of Union soldiers. The logistics 
alone make the film an astounding spectacle. Most of the film was 
shot aboard and atop a speeding train, with Buster taking more risks 
per scene than a trapeze artist. Unfortunately, it is impossible to 
recommend a video version of this film. Badly scratched and horribly 
washed-out prints strip this masterpiece of its meticulous attention 
to detail; indeed, oftentimes Buster's facial takes are impossible to 
read. Further, this movie demands the kind of careful viewing and 
absolute absorption that are endemic to watching a projected film, 
and this state of awareness is difficult to achieve in front of a tele- 
vision. Hopefully, Keaton’s work will soon be accorded the kind of 
video transfer provided by the CBS Playhouse Chaplin series. 
VIDEO GUIDES 
children’s media absorption. | hope it suceeds. 
—Corinne Cullen Hawkins 
Sd 
Walt Disney Home Video 
STORIES AND FABLES Volumes 1-19 
Walt Disney, 50 minutes each, ages 6 and up, live 
action. 
This is a massive international series of fables, folktales 
and fiction in 19 volumes originally shot on film and 
ultimately transferred to videotape. Each tape consists of 
two complete stories that are well-acted and beautifully 
narrated (the actors do not ever speak but complement 
the narrative in a simple and clear manner). 
. 
. 
. 
This series may be a well kept secret on a back shelf at 
your neighborhood home video store or library, but ask 
for it and try out a couple. The less jaded you and your 
children are, the better you'll like it. It resembles home 
cooking—nothing too fancy, just good, honest fare. 
Identical pictures as seen on conventional TV (top) and high- 
definition TV (bottom) — increased resolution and nearly 
filmlike clarity. Someday, every TV picture will be this good; the 
only question is when. 
making and are fun to browse. Movies are listed 
alphabetically, with icons identifying the genre, and 
are indexed by genre in the back. The only thing 
missing is an index by actors and directors. 
—Corinne Cullen Hawkins 
THE CREATURE FROM THE HAUNTED SEA 
Were 
1960, USA 
Antony Carbone, Betsy Jones-Moreland, Edward Wain, Edmundo Rivera 
Alvarez, Robert Beam. Directed by Roger Corman. 60 min. 
et ss 
This is one of those films that you should give thanks to 
the great god VCR for having resurrected from the dead. 
If you've seen either Roger Corman’s Little Shop of Horrors or A Bucket 
of Blood (and if you've seen them, and liked them), then you must 
get this, because it sort of forms a trilogy with the other two, and 
it’s been all but impossible to see for years. The story goes that 
Corman was in Puerto Rico making two quickie movies with the 
same cast and production crew. When he was done he figured, well, 
why not stay another week, seeing as all the necessary people are 
here, and make another one? So‘he called Charles Griffith, author 
of Little Shop and Bucket, and asked if he could write another comedy- 
horror film that afternoon. This is the result. A gangster agrees to 
use his boat to transport a group of political refugees off a revolution- 
torn island. When he discovers that they’ve taken the national trea- 
sury with them, he decides to kill them off, blame the deaths on the 
local sea monster, and keep the loot himself. Of course, there turns 
out to be a real sea monster (not that the thirty-nine-cent costume 
will fool you for a minute) who claims his revenge; the final shot in 
the film is the beastie picking his teeth after finishing off the crew. 
Robert Beam, who plays one of the crew members, was promoted 
to actor from boom man when Corman, who was supposed to play 
the role himself, decided that it was too tough. 
