86 NOMADIC NETWORKS 
Electronic Cottage 
on Wheels 
by Steven K. Roberts 
I am an agent of future shock, frolicking in that strange 
region where the boundaries between technology and 
magic blur. I have finally found a job I like: high-tech 
nomad. 
I live in a world that is part bicycle, part computer 
network, and part kaleidoscopic amalgam of lifestyles 
that span the full spectrum of human behavior. My 
office is a computerized, 36-speed, 220-pound, 8-foot- 
long recumbent bicycle bedecked with solar panels and 
enough gizmology to re-seed Silicon Valley after the 
Big One. While traveling full time on this machine, I 
maintain a freelance writing business—the ideal way to 
get paid for playing. With occasional layovers for major 
projects, I have been doing this since late 1983, crank- 
ing out some four million pedal strokes, and about the 
same number of keystrokes. 
What are the tools that have allowed me to break the 
chains that once bound me to my desk and make a 
living anywhere with virtually no overhead? 
During my first 10,000 miles, I carried only one com- 
puter. Though it was an astonishingly robust system (the 
Hewlett-Packard Portable PLUS), I still couldn’t write 
while riding. Since 10,000 miles corresponds to roughly 
1,000 hours of pure pedaling time (half a business year), 
this is no small matter—I had far too many days of good 
ideas, good intentions, and no work output. 
I took a year’s sabbatical from the road and dedicated 
myself to building a different system. The original 
Handie-Talkies 
by Blair Newman 
Amateur (“ham”) radio can be a low cost alternative to 
cellular phones. With a $250 “handie-talkie” you can 
make virtually unlimited local telephone calls at an 
annual cost of about $30. 
There are, however, a few catches: 
(1) You can only make outgoing calls, and not receive 
incoming ones. 
(2) Only “personal” calls are legal. Business conversa- 
tions, even ordering a pizza to go, are prohibited by 
FCC regulations. 
(3) You have to join a “repeater club” (a repeater is a 
base station linked to the phone lines) and pay their dues 
(the $30/yr.). 
(4) You have to get a Technician class ham license from 
the federal government, which means passing a two part 
test. The first part has multiple choice questions about 
electronics and FCC regulations. It’s pretty easy be- 
intention—being able to type while riding—quickly 
evolved into a complete bicycle control and communi- 
cations system. 
When I’m on the road, my fingers dance a quiet staccato 
on the handlebars. They move as if playing the flute, 
pressing combinations of eight waterproof keys to yield 
any of 256 binary codes—a convenient handlebar/ 
keyboard that will type both letters and control charac- 
ters. Up in the console, the bicycle control processor 
reacts—decoding the incoming data into a modified 
Radio Shack Model 100. The net effect: smooth, ma- 
chine-readable text captured while I’m on the road, 
yielding files that can be downloaded to the HP for fine 
tuning and subsequent transmission from the first avail- 
able telephone to my Ohio office via electronic mail on 
the GEnie computer network. 
The solar battery-charging process is now under com- 
puter control, as are the security system, self diagnos- 
tics, electronic compass, and more. A fourth processor 
handles speech synthesis (it can read text files out loud 
and explain itself to curious passers-by); a fifth manages 
cause the entire “pool” of possible questions, and their 
answers, are published. The second part requires being 
able to understand Morse code at 5 words per minute. 
Think of it as learning a foreign language — a language 
with only 40 “words”: the 26 letters of the alphabet, the 
10 digits, and 4 punctuation symbols. The easiest way to 
learn is listening to Morse code practice tapes. It takes 
10 to 20 hours. 
For more info check your local library for introduction- 
to-ham-radio- books, check the Yellow pages under 
Radio for your local ham retailer, or call Ham Radio 
Outlet (800-854-6064; in CA 415/342-5757) and order 
The Technician/General License Manual (ARRL, 
$5), plus either The 21 day Novice Course (West, $20) 
or Tune in the World (ARRL, $20). The latter two 
include practice tapes. 
A final note: The vast majority of activity on the ham 
radio bands are recreational discussions, not phone 
calls. It’s kind of the audio equivalent of computer con- 
ference, similar to telephone “‘chat lines” except free. 
Different groups “hang out” on different frequencies: In 
San Francisco one channel is mainly Grateful Dead- 
heads, another is mainly computer hobbyists, etc. 
Steven Roberts uploads a days worth of 
writing into the nearest port — a roadside 
:
pay phone. Steven can be reached on 
CompuServe 72757, 15. 
packet data communication via 
two-meter ham radio. A CB radio 
is also on board, culturally useless 
by comparison, but still valuable 
enough to justify its weight. 
Other radio-related devices in- 
clude a Sony digital shortwave for 
international broadcast reception, 
|
a Sony Watchman micro-TV, and 
an FM stereo. Naturally, there is 
also an audio casette deck, and a compact disc player is 
planned for under-dash installation soon. 
All the equipment described so far, plus behind-the- 
scenes control circuitry, requires electricity—in six 
different voltages. A pair of 10-watt Solarex pho- 
tovoltaic panels serves as the primary source. When too 
many cloudy days occur back to back, a power supply 
with line cord allows refueling from house current. 
The bike itself was designed for full-time, heavily 
loaded touring, with thick-wall, chrome-moly tubing, 
triple rear stays, tandem-style crossover drive, wide- 
range gearing (later expanded to 36 speeds), and a 48- 
spoke undished rear wheel with disc brake. The entire 
machine was fitted with braze-ons to support my un- 
usual needs. I took it from there—using the bike as as 
substrate for the trappings of my life, changing form 
every year or so as new technologies become available. 
Full-time bicycle touring raises an interesting issue. 
What, in the words of Alvin Toffler, can a traveler use 
as an “enclave of stability” while wandering endlessly 
across the earth’s surface? The bike itself, while deeply 
familiar and “home” in may ways, is not enough to 
satisfy that basic need. 
My enclave of stability is found on the networks—a 
strange amalgam of satellite and bicycle, cloud and soil, 
a place that is no place yet is every place at once. Give 
me a telephone and I’m home: all it takes is connection 
of the computer and a few typed commands and I cross 
that familiar threshold, see the GEnie sign-on messages 
that let me know I’m inside. Beyond those electronic 
portals I meet my closest friends, keep up with the 
activities of my Ohio office, publish weekly travel tales, 
seek help with arcane technical problems, find kindred 
spirits, and sometimes just hang around bantering with 
other vaporous denizens of the network—intellectual 
projections of real humans sitting somewhere on Earth. 
I wander freely in physical space, returning to my stable 
home in Dataspace night after night for stability and 
security. 
I’m often asked how far, how fast, how many states, 
how long. The frequent questions along these goal- 
oriented numerical lines are hard to answer properly on 
the streets: I am here. Period. Tomorrow I might be 
somewhere else but maybe I’11 still be here—who 
knows? If you think too much about where you’re 
going, you lose respect for where you are. 
