98 
DESKTOP PUBLISHING 
THIS DESKTOP 
PUBLISHED BOOK 
by Kevin Kelly 
This page you are reading began as notes jotted into a 
Macintosh word processor. Like the other pages in 
Signal, they are writ in the heavy duty hand of Micro- 
soft Word 3.01. We make use of Word’s nifty style 
[Above] Richard Kadrey checks 
proof sheets that churn out the 
Laserwriter's exit tray. A depend- 
able and quiet robot, it is essen- 
tially a small copy machine 
grafted onto the brain of a 
personal computer. 
sheets, which allow a 
single code to activate a 
particular text format. For 
instance, the typeface, column width, line spacing, and 
character size of this sentence are all invoked by the 
single name we assigned on the Mac menu, “article 
body.” That means that as we are writing we can see 
what the text will look like on paper. The finished writ- 
ing is spell-checked with Word’s built-in speller (handy, 
but not infallible), and printed out for a second proof- 
reading by one of our human proofers, either Lori 
Woolpert or Hank Roberts. 
At this stage the copy is in many small pieces, each 
review in its own file, and often times on different 
editor’s machines (Macintosh SE’s). The editor in 
charge of a page will round up the files and gather them 
into a second software program, the engine of desktop 
publishing, PageMaker 3.0. The editor of this page was 
Sarah Vandershaf. She loads the files onto her machine 
then prints out a proof page on our sole Laserwriter, 
which is at the apex of a bird’s nest of cables coming 
into it from every Mac in the office. To conserve expen- 
sive cartridges ($100 new) we feed it cheaper refilled 
ones for proofs (about $50 per refill). 
The oversize pages of Signal come out of the Laser- 
writer in two half sideways pages (thanks to a trick 
taught us by Jay Kinney), are taped together, and empty 
spaces filled out with xeroxed illustrations. This proof 
page, along with a floppy disk containing the file, are 
sent over to art director Kathleen O’Neill’s desk. 
Kathleen then lays out the pages on her Mac Plus using 
PageMaker 3.0. It takes about one hour per page to 
arrange the text and picture boxes to fit. The illustration 
boxes can be enlarged or elongated very easily, and the 
3.0 version of PageMaker allows Kathleen to run text 
around an odd-shape illustration, so that the end of the 
text snuggles up to a custom fit along the edge of the 
illustration. This was a backbreaker on standard typeset- 
ting equipment. 
Don Ryan shoots the book covers with a4 x 5 view 
camera loaded with Polaroid 52 black and white film. 
The pics are later ganged for group half-toning. He uses 
a Polaroid MP-4 industrial copy camera to shoot pic- 
tures excerpted from books that have grey half-tones. 
Any strictly black and white “line” drawings are merely 
xeroxed using our fabulous Mita copy machine and a 
special clay-coated paper to increase its already fine 
resolution. The xerox will then be pasted down with 
wax. 
The completely designed layout pages are proofed a 
second time, then sent back to the editors for correc- 
[Left] Sarah Vandershaf pours 
finished writing into the Page- 
Maker template in her Mac SE. 
Her screen displays the full 
spread as two teeny pages. Even 
from where she is sitting it's 
impossible to read; the text 
shows as flexible blocks of gray 
— enough to get a rough idea of 
placement. 
[Above] Kathleen O'Neill parked 
her Mac near a window overlook- 
ing her courtyard flower garden. 
Where papers used to cover her 
desk, a spinning hard disk now 
does. Kathleen’s sketching hand 
finds the square stationary 
pointing gadget (Felix) to be 
superior to the usual mouse. It 
takes up less desk space and in 
marathon design sessions it's 
less tiring on the forearm, pre- 
venting “Macintosh elbow.” 
[Above right] Don Ryan aims the Polaroid MP-4 at a book illustration to 
transform it into the right sized half-tone for its new home in Signal 
[Right] John Chan inspects a nearly completed paste-up, in this case 
pages 32-33. Everything except the pictures comes already drawn 
out on the raw pages. His chief task is to paste down the xerox illos 
and photographs in the designated places. The job is made a bit 
more challenging because things frequently don’t quite fit. 
r 
é 
File 
Edit 
Options 
Page 
Type 
Lines 
Shades 
= 
== 
Layout 98 99 
E ee : Se 
tat 
‘ololola| 
This is what a page looks like on the Mac screen after it’s been 
designed. Compare this miniature image of pages 98-99 (Cinematog- 
raphy & Animation) with the actual spread in this book. 
tions, and finally printed out by production manager 
Susan Erkel Ryan on clay-coated paper (Pro-Tech 
94180) in the Laserwriter. Paster-uppers John Chan and 
Laura Benne apply a thin coat of hot wax to the back of 
the laserprinted pages and stick them down on poster- 
board “flats.” There the additional gingerbread goodies 
of photographs and xeroxed drawings are added. 
A copy of the layout pages go to David Bumor, who 
indexes each one on a Compaq computer (IBM compat- 
ible) compiled in Smart Database. 
By a true blessing we had no major equipment break- 
downs and thus no chance to test our backup system, 
which may or may not have been adequate. Although 
we relied heavily on Macintoshes and PageMaker, the 
real complexity of producing an illustrated book mocks 
the casualness which “desktop published” conveys. It’s 
not something you do while watching TV. Our usual 
typesetter didn’t have anything to do, but the editors 
typed far more, and while the paste-up folks had it 
easier, Kathleen had twice the burden of both designing 
and electronically pasting-up for them. We still don’t 
know yet if this is a net gain. It certainly made every- 
thing happen in a shorter time period, which is not 
always a good thing. 
PageMaker 3.0, $595 from 
Aldus Corporation, 411 
First Avenue South, Suite 
200, Seattle, WA 98104; 
- 206/628-2375 
Pro-Tech Laser Ultra 
94180 paper from James 
River Corporation, P.O. 
Box Z, Ludlow, MA 01056; 
800/521-5035 
