108 
DIRECTING 
The Dark Side of 
Genius 
(The Life of 
Alfred Hitchcock) 
Donald Spoto 
1983; 665 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
800/638-6460 
or Whole Earth Access 
There are plenty of powerful directors whose lives 
and work are documented and worth studying: 
Huston, Ford, Kurosawa, Truffaut. The advantages 
of examining Hitchcock are that so much is known 
about him; that most of his films are available for 
rental on video cassette; and that his methods are 
rather obvious. It’s no detraction from his genius to 
observe that Hitchcock was only a few steps 
ahead of the state of the art; consequently, the 
world was ready for his innovations and took to 
them immediately. When you look at one of his 
films now (try watching it two or three times to get 
past being taken in by the story), it’s like a textbook 
Directing for 
Film and 
Television 
Christopher Lukas 
1985; 193 pp. 
$11.95 
($13.95 postpaid) from: 
Doubleday Cash Sales 
P.O. Box 5071 
Des Plaines, IL 60017 
or Whole Earth Access 
2. 
demonstration of how to create suspense, develop 
a story, reveal a character's inner thoughts, etc. 
Dark as some of his themes were, and much of his 
makes this clear from the start, then goes on to 
bring a remarkable amount of his considerable 
experience into nearly proving himself wrong. This 
is not just for beginners. Open the book anywhere 
and find a generous serving of truth from a working 
director who has passion, wit, and a rare talent for 
teaching. 
Put this on your shelf next to When the Shooting 
Stops. ... you'll have the core of a very good 
library on film craft. 
; 
—Tom Schneider 
Hitchcock (foreground, pointing) directing The 
Mountain Eagle in Munich (1928). 
life, the man sure knew how to tell a 
good story. 
His life would have made one of his 
most macabre films. 
, 
—Tom Schneider 
. 
The fantasies Hitchcock spun and that his 
screenwriters gave structure to were always 
geared to cinematic realization. His films 
depended on the emergence, from deep 
within him, of mysterious images — images 
that were often violent, at times tender. From 
his own secret longings and vivid imagina- 
tion there came the small germs of stories 
— sometimes fearful and erotic, sometimes 
quietly comic or dreamlike. But the plots and 
the characters would always be subordinate 
to the power of the images — just as in 
dreams, the narrative is never quite logical 
or clear and is always subordinate to the images. 
Similarly, the residue of feelings left by dreams, like the 
impression left by Hitchcock’s images, is more important 
than any half-remembered “plot.” 
® 
One of the most exciting kinds of script writing is the kind 
that places us right in the midst of a scene. We see the 
lovers quarreling, but we don’t know why — yet. The 
scene has reached a point of tension; we have to fight to 
keep up; they know so much more than we do, but it’s 
exciting precisely because the scene has momentum. 
Conversely, a script in which dialogue starts as we 
dissolve to the scene, though we know that the charac- 
ters have been with each other for two hours, limps 
along. A script in which every scene crackles with 
accepted facts that we perceive rather than receive, is a 
good script. A script that crackles, in general, that leads 
us from scene to scene, enticing us to want to see more, 
is a good script. 
La Nuit de Varennes: In a coach, traveling along in the middle of the dusty French countryside are three passengers (Drawing 1). We see a two-shot of the countess 
and the writer (Drawing 2). She is on the left. We now cut to a two-shot of the countess and the priest (Drawing 3). She is now on the right (because she is sitting 
between the two of them). This is not supposed to work, because it means that she will “jump” from the left side of the screen to the right side of the screen and it will be 
distracting. The right way to do the scene (says the “director's handbook’) is to use a three-shot of the passengers, then individual shots of each and use the two-shots 
only if “bridged” by one of those other shots. Or, pan from one two-shot to another (Drawing 4). 
The cut described above, the one that isn’t supposed to work, why does it work? Probably because the editor chose just the right moment to make the cut, when the 
eyes of the audience were on the priest and not the countess; or when the sentence that the writer was saying was so cogent that we just didn’t pay attention to that so- 
called wrong cut. 
