150 CAD 
AutoCAD 
$300-$2,750 from: Autodesk, Inc., 2320 Marinship Way, 
Sausalito, CA 94965; 415/331-0356 
Ideal uses for computer graphics: jobs that de- 
mand constant alterations, pictures constructed 
with numerical precision, and designs that make 
use of repeating patterns. 
The best computer aided design (CAD) program 
for personal computers: AutoCAD. 
One typical application for this well-proven pro- 
gram would be to render a manufacturing sketch of 
windmill, down to the thousandths of a inch. Or 
draw a project assembled out of standard compo- 
nents. Then when you are just about finished, 
amend the whole drawing, re-sizing it where 
needed, to fit a substituted smaller part. Ughhh. 
Get me my computer slave. 
Or computer genii. The newest increment of Au- 
toCAD (Release10) elevates it to the status of 
Master Draftsman. Fully powered with 3D rotation, 
it can draw with bewitched perspective. It lets you 
rapidly depict convoluted objects from various 
angles at engineer precision, a chore that is tortu- 
ous punishment with pencils. Weird machine parts, 
CADENCE 
Dave Baceski, ed., $34.95/yr. (12 issues) from Ariel 
Communications, 12710 Research Blvd.,Suite 250, 
Austin, TX 78759; 512/250-1700 
The CAD/CAM Journal 
Shawn Hopwood, ed., $20/yr. (6 issues) from Koncepts 
Graphic Images Inc., 16 Beaver Street, New York, NY 
10004; 212/425-4441 
Periodicals, not books, are where you keep up with 
stones rolling downhill as fast as computer as- 
sisted design is. As is often the case in truly van- 
guard fields, the advertisements can be more 
useful than whimpy editorial filler, which is mostly 
what is in these two. 
CAD/CAM is “For The Macintosh Professional”. 
That last word will give you an idea of where their 
heart is— 
corporations. But the Mac is where you 
want to be as it takes over the design field, particu- 
Generic CADD 
$99.95 to $345.95 for IBM or compatibles, 512K, 
graphics card, mouse needed. Hard disk, color 
monitor, math coprocessor recommended. From 
Generic Software, 8763 148th Ave. N.E., Redmond, 
WA 98052; 206/885-5307 
The brown paper bag version of CAD. While its 
abbreviated capabilities are impressive, and 
cheap, it still needs the expensive add ons 
(graphic card and mouse) high price spreads 
need. Generic CADD comes in ascending 
grades. The plainest ($100) is not much more 
than a fancy drafting program. Level 3 ($200) 
will get you through respectably complicated 
ornate architecture, com- 
plexly layered floor plans. 
CAD programs in gen- 
eral, and AutoCAD in 
particular, are so uncan- 
nily articulate that | would 
use them as an imagin- 
ing tool alone. 
AutoCAD has endeared 
itself to legions of profes- 
sional engineers and 
architects because it can 
be clothed in one of 
thousands of specialized 
templates. These guild 
templates tailor 
AutoCAD’s talents to a 
specific task, say plotting 
the layout of the electrical 
| 
system in a factory, or 
designing toothed gears. 
A client's residence drawn by a Chicago architecture firm, using AutoCAD. 
Techies love these “verti- 
cal applications” because 
they short-cut a lot of the grunt work of design, 
tosh II, or IBM PC versions (you'll need a hard disk 
redesign, redesign. 
and supercharging). But it is a true tool. It moves 
you from can’t to can. 
This program ain’t cheap. It’s $3,000 for the Macin- 
— Kevin Kelly 
" 
@ 
File 
Edit 
Help 
larly in the small shop. CADENCE is 
for “Using AutoCAD in the Professional 
Expand C?-2:6809 PartsLayout 85% 
Environment”. There’s that word again. 
This is the best rendezvous point to 
meet up with hundreds of specialized 
AutoCAD applications and user groups 
thereof. The real power of AutoCAD is 
in these user-developed templates, 
and in the practical stories of how 
“professionals” converted to the true- 
belief of small computer CAD. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Douglas Electronic’s new package Professional 
Layout assists electrical engineers design the ever- 
: 
increasingly complex layouts of printed circuit 
boards. Wiring the connections is mind-boggling 
complicated. Professional Layout implements an 
autorouting procedure. This example shows a 
file that is 85% complete. The autoroute pass will stop when it is 91% complete, about the best a 
machine can do. The engineer will have to figure out the rest. 
— The CAD/CAM Journal 
een
ed
floor plans. Generic CADD 3D ($350) brings 
you three dimensional modelling and surface 
shading if you try extra hard (the manual 
doesn’t help much). It’s price doesn’t seem low- 
rent until you compare it to $3,000. What you 
get is your basic peanut butter and jelly CADD 
— no frills, no promises, take it or leave it. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Generic 3.D Solids is a true 3-Dimensional modeler which 
defines solids through faces, vertices, and edges. This method is 
inherently more powerful than other approaches. Even if you are 
new to 3.D drawing, you can produce intricate solid or wireframe 
models. 
