OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS 
PURPOSE 
W E ARE AS GODS and might as well 
get good at it. So far remotely done 
power and glory — as via government, big 
business, formal education, church — has 
succeeded to the point where gross defects 
obscure actual gains. In response to this di- 
lemma and to these gains, a realm of intimate, 
personal power is developing — the power of 
individuals to conduct their own education, 
find their own inspiration, shape their own 
environment, and share the adventure with 
whoever is interested. Tools that aid this 
process are sought and promoted by this 
version of the Whole Earth Catalog. 
FUNCTION 
IGNAL IS AN EVALUATION and 
access device. It can help a user dis- 
cover what is worth getting and how to get it. 
We're here to point, not to sell. We have no 
financial obligation to any of the suppliers 
listed. Our only obligation is accuracy for 
the reader. We only review stuff we think 
is great. Why waste your time with 
anything else? 
An item is listed in Signal if it is deemed: 
1. Useful as a tool, 
2. Relevant to independent education, 
3. High quality or low cost, 
4. Easily available, preferably by mail. 
The listings are continually revised and up- 
dated according to the experience and sug- 
gestions of Whole Earth Catalog users and staff. 
Latest news can be found in our magazine, 
Whole Earth Review (see p. 53). 
RANGE 
HIS BOOK LIMITS its investigation to 
all possible tools having information at 
one end and a grasp at the other. It considers 
any idea that can amplify the reach of per- 
sonal communication, any science which can 
intercept the power of larger circuits to redi- 
rect its flow toward individuals, and any art 
that can nurture data into information, infor- 
mation into knowledge, and knowledge 
into wisdom. 
PROCEDURE 
RDER ITEMS from Signal directly 
from the supplier or publisher. Do not 
order from us. We sell nothing but informa- 
tion. Books can also be ordered from the 
independent Whole Earth Access Company if 
marked “or Whole Earth Access” below the 
book’s ordering information. 
Consider these points of mail order etiquette; 
they'll make shopping by mail more pleasant 
for you and the companies you are dealing 
with. 
1. Write legibly. Say what you want on the 
ORDERING FROM WHOLE EARTH ACCESS 
HE PHRASE “or Whole Earth Access” 
that appears under most book ordering 
information in Signal means that you can 
order the book or item from the Whole Earth 
Access Company in Berkeley, California, an 
outfit inspired by the Whole Earth Catalog but 
not financially connected with us. We list 
them as a convenience to our readers, who 
may want to order multiple books from a 
single source instead of dealing with various 
publishers. To order from them: 
1. Start with the list price (not the postpaid 
price). Total the prices of the book(s). Add $3 
to each order up to five books, and 50 cents 
for each additional book for postage. Orders 
over 20 books will be charged actual UPS 
shipping rate. 
2. Beside listing the title and quantity of 
books you want, it is helpful to indicate the 
page number they appear on in Signal. 
3. Include your street address. All orders are 
shipped UPS, and UPS does not deliver to 
P.O. box numbers. 
4. For foreign orders, shipping is $4 for the 
first two books and 50 cents for each addi- 
tional book, shipped via post office book rate. 
For orders to developing countries, Interna- 
tional Registry Insurance is recommended. 
That costs an extra $3.60 per order. Remit a 
bank draft in U.S. dollars. 
Send orders, or call in with a credit card, 
to: 
Whole Earth Access 
2990 Seventh Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
800/845-2000; 415/845-3000 
outside of the envelope. Writing “mail order” 
or “catalog request” or “subscription order” 
will speed your transaction. You can usually 
request free information with an inexpensive 
post card. 
2. Expect prices to rise. The prices shown here 
are accurate as of June, 1988. All prices will be 
greater if you are ordering outside of the U.S. 
~ 
3. Don’t order from the excerpts of the cata- 
logs we’ve reviewed. Catalog prices go out of 
date quickly. Request their latest brochure to 
get the latest specifications and prices. 
4. Include sales tax if the supplier is in the 
state you are ordering from. 
5. Use the phone. Most companies will be 
happy to bill your credit card if you need 
something quickly. Even if you aren’t ina 
hurry it’s worth a phone call to check prices 
or make sure what you want is in stock. Don’t 
be shy to make use of a company’s 800 toll- 
free number; they have bought one because it 
increases their business. 
6. Use International Money Orders (IMOs) to 
send money abroad. You can get them at the 
post office. Don’t send a personal check. 
7. Be patient. It takes at least two weeks for 
your goods to arrive; four to six weeks is nor- 
mal. Make a photocopy of your order before 
you send it. 
8. Be gentle. If you need to complain, 
remember your goal is resolution, not 
revenge. If you are polite and specific, the 
person at the other end will likely deal with 
your problem sooner. Include your name and 
full address (with zip code) every time you 
write or call. 
9. Be considerate. Don’t send away for 
stuff just to keep your mailbox full. If some- 
thing free is worth your writing for, it’s 
probably worth including a stamped, self- 
addressed envelope (SASE). It guarantees a 
fast response. 
10. You don’t have to buy it. Don’t forget 
libraries, user groups, and schools. Libraries 
can get you most any book in the world 
if you are willing to wait for the inter-library 
loan network to do its magic. They also 
have growing collections of videos, CDs, 
and tape cassettes. User groups have massive 
libraries of public domain software. Many 
schools have inexpensive adult education 
classes that afford you a chance to use and 
try out expensive equipment. And then 
there are friends... 
e
