98 CINEMATOGRAPHY 
Cinefex 
Don Shay, Editor 
$17/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Cinefex 
P. O. Box 20027 
Riverside, CA 92516 
714/242-9704 
It is evidence of film’s magic that what happens 
behind the scenes has always been as entertain- 
ing as the show up front, and sometimes more. 
When monsters slob- 
ber and spaceships 
hurtle across the 
screen, | believe it. But 
when the scene is 
flipped and I’m shown 
how the most convinc- 
ing special effects are 
done, | find it unbe- 
lieveable, yet alto- 
gether spellbinding. 
Hundreds of people work years to construct in- 
credibly elaborate illusions out of latex, tiny models 
and winking computers — each a secret of fine 
craftsmanship waiting to be told. This amazing 
magazine (scads of color pictures, no advertising) 
is what some folks around here sneak off to a 
corner with and read for hours. 
—Kevin Kelly 
American 
Cinematographer 
George Turner, Editor 
$17.95/year 
(12 issues) from: 
American Cinematographer 
P.O. Box 2230 
Hollywood, CA 90078 
213/876-5080 
You can be an insider for 
the price of a subscription. American Cinematog- 
rapher is where you'll find out how it’s done when 
you can hire ten experts and all the equipment you 
need to produce three perfect minutes on screen. 
Cinematographer has taken more interest lately in 
the history of American filmmaking, besides front- 
line reports on the latest marriages of film and 
video. 
—Tom Schneider 
4 
[Bo Welch, production designer for Beetlejuice]: 
“If you envision purgatory as being a never 
ending visit to the department of motor vehicles 
to renew your license, it gives you some idea of 
what we were going for! It was not intended to 
be scary except in unconventional ways. The 
main set in the afterlife is a vast secretarial pool 
where the desks go on and on, into the deep 
background, lost in a sea of computer printout 
paper and other kind of flotsam. Corpses are 
shown being conveyed through the secretarial 
complex by means of overhead pulley systems. 
Basically, this is the place where the newly dead 
go for their assignments to resolve whatever 
they left unresolved at the time or their demise. 
quest to save Fantasia from doom. 
“How does one go about fashioning the look for this kind 
of thing? Our choice was to make it drab and institu- 
tional. The two colors that predominate in this part of the 
afterlife are a rather sickly green and yellow as seen 
though a corru- 
gated plastic patio 
roof.” 
Left: Winona Ryder 
floats to a calypso beat 
in Beetlejuice. 
Below: To the discomfi- 
ture of newly-dead Alec 
Baldwin, the Char Man 
(Douglas Turner) can’t 
stop smoking in the 
afterlife even after 
being burnt to a crisp in 
real life. 
Above: An army of technicians prepare to orchestrate Falkor’s multitudinous cables. The 43-foot-long mechanical creature 
was capable of various head movements and facial expressions, including the ability to form words. 
Left: Atreyu (Noah Hathaway), the young warrior-hero of The Neverending Story, rides Falkor the flying luckdragon on his 
For maximum control, “Dream 
Quest” dismissed the possibil- 
ity of using actual cloud 
footage for The Adventures 
of Buckaroo Banzai in favor 
of creating their own on stage. 
Experimentation led to the 
employment of polyester fiber 
fill glued onto pieces of 
plexiglass. Here, minor 
adjustments are made to 
simulated cloud formations. 
Premiere 
Susan Lyne, Editor 
$18/year 
(12 issues) from: 
Premiere 
P.O. Box 11395 
Des Moines, IA 50347 
212/725-7926 
You'll have to wade 
through gossipy movie 
Star profiles and graphic 
= 
design that looks like it wandered off the pages of 
Cosmo to get to the good stuff — unflinching re- 
views of new film releases and articles that give an 
insiders-eye-view of the eternally fascinating (if 
occasionally repellent) Hollywood movie machine. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
o 
Though Cry Freedom is often a chore to watch, it has a 
cumulative effect that is unexpectedly involving. Atten- 
borough could have made a soft, conciliatory film, the 
cinematic equivalent of the song “We Are the World.” 
Instead, his film is a testament to the futility of the liberal 
position on South Africa. It bluntly demonstrates that 
there is no reasoning with the proponents of apartheid, 
no appealing to their finer instincts, no sense in waiting 
for gradual change. The Woods family became part of 
the struggle by giving up first its freedom and then its 
worldly goods. The film offers no less painful alternatives 
and refuses to let right-minded spectators feel good 
about themselves. Cry Freedom has the lumpish 
gracelessness of a political pamphlet, and that is part of 
its power, conveying urgency and the need for commit- 
ment. It is neither art nor entertainment, but a call to 
arms. 
