Personal Computers 
and the Disabled 
Peter McWilliams 
1984; 416 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Doubleday Cash Sales 
P.O. Box 5071 
Des Plaines, IL 60017-5071 
Personal Computers for the Disabled has lots of 
technical information, including detailed critiques of 
The Rehab/ 
Education 
Technology 
ResourceBook 
Series 
(Communication, Control, | 
and Computer Acces 
for Disabled and 
Elderly Individuals) 
Brandenburg & 
Vanderheiden, Editors 
University of Wisconsin 
Trace R & D Center, 
Reprint Service 
S-151 Waisman Center 
1500 Highland Avenue 
Madison, WS 53705-2280 
ResourceBook 1 — Communication Aids, 1987, 239 
pp. $24.50 postpaid. Services and equipment for vocally 
impaired people. 
ResourceBook 2 — Switches and Environmental 
Controls, 1987, 227 pp. $24.50 postpaid. Also includes 
section on call, monitoring and memory systems. (I 
found this volume to be the most intriguing and 
informative of the scope of needs and abilities of 
disabled people.) 
ResourceBook 3 — Hardware and Software, 1987, 
491 pp. $29.50 postpaid. Sources of hardware and 
software to make computers useful to disabled people. 
Set of 1, 2, and 3 $69.50 postpaid. 
ResourceBook 4 — Update, Borden & Vanderheiden, 
Editors, 1988, 380 pp. $18.50 postpaid. Update to 
ResourceBooks 1, 2, and 3. 
Believing you'd rather spend your time and energy 
in using or learning something rather than trying to 
find it or determine if it even exists, the editors 
have designed a many-tentacled tool for thera- 
pists, educators, parents, and disabled consumers 
to deal with a rapidly expanding technological sea 
of augmentative and rehab products and devices. 
The LOCT (light operated computer terminal) 
system uses a low powered infrared light 
source mounted on the nose bridge of spec- 
tacle frames to activate a receiver terminal (or 
keyboard). The user looks directly at the 
receiver and by small head movements can 
direct the light beam to activate whichever key 
or function they choose. 
every personal computer, printer, and electronic 
typewriter I’ve ever heard of (and many | haven't 
heard of). McWilliams is learning-disabled (he 
never mastered multiplication tables), so he sym- 
pathizes with disabled people while avoiding 
sentimentality. 
—Mark O’Brien 
Sd 
People with the use of neither arms nor legs — but who 
have full use of head and neck — have several options 
for computer input. One is the sip and puff straw or the 
head switch. Others are spoken input and joysticks that 
operate by tongue or head movement. 
The bulk of these books are product descriptions 
and access information. Although you don’t get 
told what’s more hype than performance — de- 
scriptions are supplied by producers — you do get 
led to newsletters, databases, and service organi- 
zations who evaluate and make public their re- 
views. 
Particularly impressive are the cross-referencing 
indexes, allowing you to match up particular needs 
and capabilities with specific availability. 
—Sarah Satterlee 
[Suggested by Mark O’Brien] 
Gewa Page Turner is an automatic page turning system that can 
accommodate most textbooks, paperbacks, magazines, and smaller 
newspapers. A rubber roller manipulates pages forward and back- 
ward, singly or continuously, with no adjustments necessary for size, 
texture or style of document. 
Communication Outlook 
(Focusing on Communication 
Aids and Techniques) 
Luis Wassman, Editor 
$15/4 issues per year 
Artificial Language Laboratory 
Michigan State University 
405 Computer Center 
East Lansing, MI 48824-1042 
517/353-0870 
ENABLING COMPUTERS 
Closing the 
Gap 
$21/6 issues 
uu 
per year 
(One of these issues 
is the annual Resource 
Directory available 
separately for 
$14.95 postpaid) from:\ 
Closing the Gap 
\ 
P.O. Box 68 
Henderson, MN 56044 
612/341-8299 
For special education and rehabilitation profession- 
als, a comprehensive newsletter offering evalu- 
ations of new products, listings of service organiza- 
tions, synopses of pending legislation, and a calen- 
dar of conferences and events. This year’s re- 
source directory focuses on microcomputer prod- 
ucts that can assist people with disabilities. 
When | asked two people, 2000 miles apart, for 
their recommendations, they both said, “Of course, 
there’s Closing the Gap.” 
—Sarah Satterlee 
[Suggested by Jim Vagnoni 
and Luis Wassman] 
® 
LD children do not necessarily need “special” software. 
They can use virtually any well designed program that 
contains specific characteristics suited to their needs. 
Here are some things to look for when choosing soft- 
ware for LD children: 
1. Clear, uncluttered screen display with easy to read 
text and clearly drawn graphics — this is vital 
2. Ease of use 
3. Clear instructions on screen 
4. Incorrect answers result in: 
—less interesting responses than given to 
correct answers 
—respectful responses — no harsh buzzers, 
x-ed out answers, etc. 
—helpful feedback leading to correct 
answers 
5. Incorrect answers stay on the screen until users 
choose to remove them —this allows children and teach- 
ers to analyze mistakes and try to correct them. 
6. Users control of as many options as possible — 
ability to control speed, content, sound, exit and entry 
points, amount of repetition, length of presentations, 
etc. ... 
12. And most important of all . 
. 
. programs that intrigue 
children and motivate them to want to learn — look for 
programs that provide novelty, humor, suspense, variety, 
a means of creating products of which they can be proud 
(pictures, stories, printed copies of problems they have 
solved), etc. 
Enabling the disabled must be a personal 
computer's proudest moment. Read this ca- 
pable newsletter for reports on sophisti- 
cated and home-brewed experiments to 
extend the body’s senses into hardware for 
the benefit of the disabled. The whole do- 
main is more pragmatic and service ori- 
ented, and therefore more successful, than 
similar robotic research. 
—Kevin Kelly 
177 
