84 WORLD INFORMATION ECONOMY 
FRAGMENTS OF A WORLD 
INFORMATION ECONOMY 
by Peter Schwartz 
Nor TOO LONG ago the manufacture 
of things like textiles and steel and auto- 
mobiles were the driving structures out of 
which industrialism emerged. The win- 
ners in that game profited from mass pro- 
duction, economics of scale, and low-cost 
resources. Now, the value added in trans- 
forming material is related to our capacity 
to understand and use information in var- 
ious ways. How are the rules of this new 
game going to be written? 
The principle technologies involved are 
telecommunications and computing. And 
the two great systems that will use them 
predominantly are finance and recorded 
entertainment. By recorded entertainment 
I mean television, movies, music, and so 
on, ona worldwide scale. Isingle out these 
two systems because, in both cases, the 
markets and products are becoming in- 
creasingly global and accelerated by rap- 
idly advancing technology. 
Inthe new game, the linking infrastructure 
is going to be a function of what finance 
wants on the one hand, and what the elec- 
tronic entertainment media wants on the 
other. Everything else will be piggy- 
backed on that. The rules for satellite allo- 
cation or for broadcasting bandwidth allo- 
cation or for how one makes money or for 
how finance is regulated, will be focused 
around these two industries. 
Today no one is thinking about the mean- 
ing of the rules being developed in an 
informal, unpredictable, evolutionary way 
around the short-term exigencies of those 
industries. Ultimately they will, quite by 
chance, evolve into something, and that 
something will become the organizing 
paradigm of the next century. That para- 
digm, inasmuch as we’ ve ambled from the 
real of the material to the informational, 
will become a kind of global conscious- 
ness. It is the system within which we all 
begin to think about ourselves collec- 
tively. 
READING LIST 
Aneconomy takes shape as the outcome of 
avery large number of micro decisions. In 
his last great masterpiece, the three part 
Civilization and Capitalism, 15th-18th 
Century, Fernand Braudel describes this 
process in great detail. The gradual elabo- 
ration of markets, the development of trad- 
ing companies, the creation and applica- 
tion of new technology and so on come 
together to create the fabric of the capital- 
ist economy. 
Gone with the Wind 
Information that increases in value 
as it ages. 
Stock prices 
Information that diminishes in value 
as it ages. 
During the 19th Century and the early 20th 
Century the industrial economy was cre- 
ated in a similar array of decisions. Most 
had to do with the new technologies, first 
of steam and the railroad and later electric- 
ity and the petroleum-fueled internal 
combustion engine. The shape of the 
modern world was formed in those deci- 
sions. How people would work, where 
they would live, who would be rich and 
who would be poor, which skills would 
count and which would not, which nations 
would rise and which would fall. . . were 
more the result of many small choices 
rather than the apparently momentous 
decisions of a few great men. 
The world economy of the next century is 
being shaped by a similar set of current 
decisions mostly having to do with infor- 
mation systems. What standards, if any, 
will help integrate the disparate informa- 
tion technologies that have emerged from 
the age of incompatibility as Jay Ogilvy 
calls it—my Mac won’ t talk to your IBM. 
How will the international trading of 
stocks, bonds, and currencies be regu- 
lated? Will cable TV be taken over by the 
phone companies or will cable companies 
start offering voice services? Will the of- 
fice of the future be modeled on the factory 
of yesterday or does hypertext provide a 
model for information relationships and 
hence work flows of tomorrow’s office? 
Will we get it in time that offices are about 
intelligence and not automation? 
Unfortunately little valuable is yet in print 
that will enable one to see these microde- 
cisions coming into being. Among the 
best and most interesting is The Deal of 
the Century: The Breakup of AT&T by 
Steve Coll. Itis the story of a political and 
economic tragedy. Forces are unleashed 
which once set in motion are uncontro- 
lable. It is a story with no winners and all 
losers including the American people. In 
the interplay of technological, business 
and political decisions 
the future of 
American telecommunications is trans- 
formed and not for the good of anyone. 
The events and characters are sufficiently 
engaging and the writing so good that the 
book can’t be put down. 
A more academic and rigorous treatment 
of the same tale can be found in Peter 
Temin’s The Breakup of the Bell Sys- 
tem. 
A useful though not at all engaging treat- 
ment of the many facts of the evolving 
information system can be found in Infor- 
mation Technology: the Trillion Dollar 
Opportunity by Harvey L. Poppel and 
Bernard Goldstein. The book is quite 
comprehensive covering computing, tele- 
communications, 
entertainment, how 
businesses in the industry are competing, 
regulation and so on. It is rich in data and 
a useful source book, but not a great read. 
How does economics change when the 
substance is symbols and not physical 
objects? Rather than chemistry or physics, 
semiotics and literary criticism may be 
more appropriate disciplines to under- 
standing economic realities in the infor- 
mation domain. Space and time mean very 
different things when you have to move a 
video image rather than tons of steel. 
One of the few books that has usefully 
grasped this concept is The Alchemy of 
Finance by George Soros. In the physical 
world what we believe usually doesn’t 
matter. The forces of nature are mainly 
independent of human intentions. That 
assumption lies behind almost all of the 
physical and biological sciences. Unfortu- 
nately the social sciences like economics 
The Structures of Everyday Life, Vol 1: 
Civilization 
and 
Capitalism 
15th-18th 
Century. Fernand Braudel, 85; 624 pp. 
$17.95. The Wheels of Commerce, Vol. 
2: Civilization and Capitalism 15th-18th 
Century. 
1986; 720 pp. $16.95. The 
Perspective 
of the World, 
Vol. 
3: 
Civilization 
and 
Capitalism 
15th-18th 
Century. 
1986; 704 
pp. $34.50. 
For 
postpaid order, add $1.50 for one title, $.50 
for each additional: J.B. Lippincott, Rt. 3 
Box 20B, Hagerstown, MD 21740; 800/ 
638-3030 
The Deal of the Century: The Breakup of 
AT&T. Steve Coll, 1986; 384 pp. $19.95 
postpaid from: Macmillan Publishing Co., 
Front and Brown Streets, Riverside NJ 
08075; 800/257-5755 
The Fall of the Bell System: A Study in 
Prices & Politics. Peter Temin and Louis 
have attempted to base their worldview on 
the physical science paradigm. Soros 
rightly argues that markets, which form 
the integrating system of the economy do 
not behave like physical systems at all. 
Alchemy provides a better model, he sug- 
gests. Alchemists failed because wishing 
won’t turn lead into gold. But what inves- 
tors believe about the value of IBM will 
drive up (or down) the value of its stock. 
What traders believe about the future of oil 
will affect the price of oil and hence how 
much is found and used. The dynamics of 
markets are very much a function of what 
people believe and how they behave as a 
result. Soros’ book is the sort of a natural 
experiment in applying this idea to antici- 
pate the behavior of financial markets. The 
subtitle of his book is “reading the mind of 
the market.” It is worth noting that he is 
one of the most successful investors of our 
day. His ideas emerge out of the real world 
experience of the market. 
Albert Bressand, a young French econo- 
mist and leader of a small think tank in 
Paris called Promethee is one of the most 
perceptive thinkers and wniters in the field, 
but has yet to produce any books in Eng- 
lish. His papers are worth getting, but areal 
theory of the information age has yet to 
emerge. The Adam Smith or the Marx of 
the information age are not yet in print. 
Maybe the ideas have yet to be born. [have 
often suspected that economics is really 
history. So we may only read about it long 
after the information economy has arrived. 
Galambos, 1988; 305 pp. $27.95 postpaid 
from: Cambridge University Press, 510 
North Avenue, New Rochelle, NY 10801; 
800/872-7423. 
Information Technology: The Trillion 
Dollar Opportunity. Harvey L. Poppel and 
Bernard Goldstein, 1987; 224 pp. $21.50 
($22.58 postpaid from): McGraw 
Hill, 
Princeton Road, Heightstown, NJ 08520; 
800/262-4729 
The Alchemy of Finance: Reading the 
Mind of the Market. George Soros, 1987; 
352 pp. $10.95. ($12.05 postpaid) from: 
Simon & Schuster, 200 Old Tappan Road, 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675; 800/223-2336 
Promethee. Albert Bressand, Director. 12 
Rue du Havre, Paris 75009 FRANCE. 331- 
428-52401. 
e
E
