Digital Retouching 
by Stewart Brand 
Time magazine does it. USA Today does it. 
National Geographic does it and has caught 
some flak about it. Very soon nearly everyone 
will do it, and the culture will be different 
as a result. 
They all use high-tech page makeup processes 
that involve turning photographs into 
computer data, where it is so easy to fiddle 
with the images that the temptation is over- 
whelming. This new capability comes from the 
merging of laser technology, used to scan the 
original photographs and convert them into 
digital data, and computer technology, whose 
increasing power at decreasing cost allows 
sophisticated manipulation of the no-longer- 
photographic image. 
National Geographic moved one of the pyramids 
of Giza to suit their cover design. Popular 
Science put an airplane from one photo onto the 
background of another photo on one of their 
covers and then bragged about how they did it 
These two famous athletes 
didn’t really meet back to back. 
To convey the competition 
between tennis champions Bjorn 
Borg and John McEnroe, World 
Tennis magazine arranged to 
portray them in an eighteenth- 
IMAGE PROCESSING 
Two things not apparent in this promotional demonstration for 
Pacific Lithographic: First, this set is one photograph, not two in 
sequence; and second, the magic is not a disappearing show, 
but a reappearing act. The camera’s film captured the intricate 
grain of the scene: four hikers against distant mountains. It was 
then digitized. Clicking on the cloning option on the Chromacom 
machine, two cursors appear in the picture about an inch apart. 
The operator can vary that distance, and slide the duo anywhere 
on the photograph. One cursor will copy the color of the point it 
rests on over to the nearby cursor. Waving the cursor copies a 
patch of color. Identical in color and brightness, the texture of the 
adjacent area is replicated point by point in a new spot. Distinc- 
tive patterns are copied exactly. Thus the people standing in the 
picture were not beamed out of the scene; rather they were 
washed over with sky and mountain paint, stolen nearby. 
Closing the distance between cursors results in ever-finer 
degrees of seamlessness. Done with skill (it is almost a routine 
operation; the main thing to watch for is incestuously cloning 
what has already been cloned once), the phoniness is 
completely convincing. 
inside the magazine. In a book of photographs of 
century duel on the magazine's 
France, the photographer 
March 1981 cover. Susan B. 
moved unsightly telephone 
Adams, explaining on the 
poles from the picture of a 
editor's page of that issue how 
Basque shepherd. The 
the cover was shot, said, 
Whole Earth Review, in 
“Finding a simultaneous hour in 
3 
, 
the hectic lives of the world’s 
questionable taste, ap- 
Gnettannisiol 
4 
5 
players. . 
. prove 
pealed to mass credulity 
the most frustrating detail. As it 
with a completely phony 
turned out, we failed. With dead- 
“photograph” of flying 
lines staring us bleakly in the 
saucers on its cover. 
face, we’d have to put them 
together photographically.” The 
two cooperating tennis pros were photographed in separate places, three 
This is a total fake. This particular 
days apart. The editors relied on image manipulation to impart the sense of 
can of Comet was never photo- 
intimate rivalry. 
graphed. It was never in a studio. 
It never existed. Taking digital re- 
It's advertising that has paid for computer digitizing machines. Color catalogs use 
touching to the extreme, Alan 
them all the time to alter a product's color, enhance its shininess, tone down its 
Green and C. Robert Hoffman Il, 
shininess, remove blemishes. Art directors use them to accomplish what photogra- 
two animators for Digital Effects in 
hers couldn't or didn’t do. And, according to an operator of the Chromacom, 
New York City, added tinselly 
who has sat through more than one quarrel, ad agencies use the imaging computers 
gleams and reflections to a 
as arenas for battling out their visual fantasies. Bausch & Lomb Sunglasses used the 
computer-generated image fabri- 
Scitex to insert models into an old WWII photo and alter a few other details to their 
cated from equations. Retouching 
liking. 
a phantom, starting from nothing. 
—____| 
HANDS-ON DIGITAL 
In 1985, AT&T’s EPICenter 
(Electronic 
Picture an 
RETOU CHIN G 
Imaging Center) introduced the first graphics board in 
by Barbara Robertson 
some purposes. But the system’s primary, application is 
for people who want to quickly modify reality to show 
how things would look “if” — architects, landscapers, 
interior designers, plastic surgeons, etc. The output is 
not photographic quality, but to create the same altered, 
yet nearly photographic, view of reality using any other 
its price range for a microcomputer that 1) captures and 
digitizes video images in real time; 2) displays images 
with enough colors to simulate a video picture in video 
resolution; 3) generates a standard NTSC video signal 
ahi, 
: 
(which means TARGA pictures can be transferred to 
With the TARGA 
16 and TIPS system, live video can 
means would be tedious if not impossible. 
videotape and broadcast on American television); and 4) 
be mixed with an onscreen digital image and the com- 
. 
. 
Targa 16: 512 x 512 resolution, 32,768 simultaneous 
; 
colors, frame grabber and buffer, captures video in 1/ 
selected from the screen; selected areas on the screen 
both second, NTSC and Analog RGB output, $1995: 
gabe instanty pee 
ne Pe 
bes and 
TIPS software, $795. Requires IBM PC/XT/AT or 
AT&T also sells a painting package, TIPS, developed 
pasted, or flipped and rotated. Yet the system 1s re- 
compatible; TV set, composite video or analog RGB 
by Island Graphics specifically for ths board. Although 
markably easy to use. 
monitor: TIPS requires Summagraphic digitizing tablet, 
other software companies offer painting packages for 
MS-DOS 2.0 or higher; both from: AT&T's EP!Center, 
the TARGA 16, TIPS, is still the lowest priced and the 
Artists who can afford the system would find it a good 
2002 Wellesley Boulevard, Indianapolis, IN 46219; 800/ 
best value. 
conceptual tool and may find the images acceptable for 
858-8783 
allows an incoming analog signal to be mixed onscreen 
posite digitized; brushes can paint with any pattern 
with the digital picture (genlock). 
