COMPUTER TOOLBOX 16/7 
Path #4: For desktop publishing and black-and-white 
: 
graphics: Macintosh with Postscript 
compatible Laser Printer. 
This path includes everything in path #2 plus page 
layout programs that take text from word processing 
programs, graphics from graphic programs, and addi- 
tional graphic elements which you type in yourself, and 
arrange them all on the screen. Then the laser prints out 
a (more-or-less accurate) replica of your screen. (See 
Desktop Publishing, p. 58-59.) 
Postscript-compatable laser printers cost $4,000 and up. 
For that price, you get images of 300 dots per inch — 
not comparable to a professional typesetting shop, but 
fairly professional-looking to the untrained eye. Several 
graphics and typesetting shops accept Macintosh-based 
files for running out on their higher-quality 1200-dot- 
per-inch Linotronic laser printers. 
Path #5: For playing with color graphics, animation, 
sound, and programming at the lowest possible 
cost: an Amiga 500. 
In strictly technical terms, the Amiga is one of the most 
advanced personal computers available. Its operating 
system, called Workbench, combines the Mac’s icons 
with the shortcut commands of MS-DOS. Not only that, 
but the Amiga has the lowest-cost rich color graphics 
available, terrific sound generation, and video compati- 
bility unequalled in other computers. You can hook this 
machine to your TV and superimpose images you’ve 
created yourself over Dallas or the evening news. 
The video compatibility makes it hard to look closely at 
details on the full-resolution screen, however. There’s 
also something clunky about the Amiga’s general ambi- 
ance. And because it never gained wide popularity, 
there’s still a shortage of software. 
Path #6: For heavy-duty dealing with text: an 
AT-compatible with extra memory and 
Framework Il software. 
People are just beginning to realize the potentials of 
manipulating text on microcomputers. It goes far be- 
yond writing as most people think of it now. The com- 
puter-based writer to come is really a text navigator, 
pulling reams of incoming material off telecommunica- 
Computer Lib/ 
Dream Machines 
Ted Nelson 
1987; 330 pp. 
$18.95 
($20.95 postpaid) from: 
Microsoft Press 
Attn.: Consumer Sales 
16011 36th Way 
P.O. Box 97017 
Redmond, WA 98073-9717 
800/426-9400 
or Whole Earth Access 
Ted Nelson started the entire genre of main- 
stream computer books in 1974 with a Whole 
Earth Catalog-sized polemic called Com- 
puter Lib/Dream Machines. Like an Ace 
pulp science-fiction novel, it came in two 
halves, bound upside-down together. The 
“Lib” side was a tourist guide to available 
SOCSHEESEHOSOSHOSSOHHOOHSOHHOHOS 
OOO 
OOOE 
tions networks, sorting and sifting them so that they 
make thematic sense, and then using those as grist for 
his or her own writing. This sort of writing requires the 
ability to mix and match hundreds of text files at once 
and sort between them. That capability is available right 
now on FRAMEWORK Il, a masterpiece of program- 
ming, combining an extremely-easy-to-use spreadsheet, 
a data manager, a word processor, and an adept tele- 
communications program in one package. 
Framework requires extra memory; otherwise, after you 
call up two or three frames’ worth of text, you’ll be told 
you hit your limit. You need to add a $750-$1000 acces- 
sory to your computer — the Intel Above Board (or 
equivalent “L.I.M. 4.0-compatible extended/expanded 
memory” cards made by other manufacturers). 
Path #7: Heavy-duty bookkeeping and small-business 
use: an AT-compatible with 
extra memory and Lotus 1-2-3. 
The AT-compatible is a minimum; you might be better 
off with a 386-based computer, because you’ 
ll probably 
want to migrate to path #9 later on, when your data 
bases overflow your current work. And if you’re adapt- 
ing a small business on personal computers, it’s 
probably worthwhile to ask a reliable consultant about 
choosing software. 
So many people have grown to use the spreadsheet 
Lotus 1-2-3 that it has, for some people, replaced the 
operating system. You can now buy writing, accounting, 
spelling, graph-making, and data managing programs 
that fit within 1-2-3’s confines. To use them, you cor- 
don off a section of the spreadsheet’s grid, bring up the 
“Add-In,” as these programs are called, and use it. 
Path #8: For keeping up with the Joneses: 
OS/2 machines and 386 machines. 
Released in December 1987, OS/2 is an infant operating 
system. It only runs MS-DOS software, so far. None of 
the new OS/2 software really exists yet, except for a few 
cobbled-together versions of existing programs. 
OS/2 has intriguing advantages against MS-DOS and 
even the Mac. Like the Mac, it uses the better 3 1/2" 
disks and permits virtually unlimited memory (meaning 
more complex programs and bigger documents). Like 
computers and the corporate policies behind them; 
the “Dream” side showed up evanescent innova- 
tions that (Nelson knew) would reshape everyone’s 
lives. (One of these nascent innovations was “Hy- 
pertext” — in which text or pictures 
contain “links,” or passages through 
which people can metaphorically leap 
to other information important to them. 
Nelson is the most prominent populizer 
of this idea, which he has devoted 
much of his working life to developing, 
and which is now itself linked with 
various suddenly prominent programs 
like HyperCard and Lotus Agenda.) 
The problem 
is not 
software 
“friendliness.” 
It is 
conceptual 
clarity. A 
globe does 
not say 
“good 
morning.” It 
is simple 
and clear, 
not 
“friendly.” 
Now Nelson has voraciously updated 
both halves of his old book. The format 
is (a bit too much) old stuff updated co- 
piously with brilliant new stuff. Amidst 
viciously well-targeted assessments of 
the Mac, it can run several programs at one time, 
switching back and forth between them. It also can run 
several parts of one program at one time, a first in per- 
sonal computing. This means that while waiting for a 
data manager to print out a list of everyone in your 
college graduating class, you could add names to the 
same list, and have those names show up at the end of 
the same printout. 
OS/2’s disadvantages: It’s expensive — both the pro- 
gram itself and (more importantly) the hardware re- 
quired to use it (2 megabytes of memory for starters, 
about four times as much as an MS-DOS computer). It’s 
cumbersome, retaining a few of MS-DOS’ most irritat- 
ing features (like file names that can be no longer than 
11 characters long). Finally, perhaps most importantly, 
not many people who aren’t programmers need all that 
heavy-duty power or can understand it yet. 
Path #9: For keeping up with the Joneses’ Joneses: 
The Macintosh Il. 
A wonderful, speedy, intuitively correct, large-screened, 
incredibly adaptable, fully-featured — $9,000 — com- 
puter (if you count the cost of the laser printer which 
would logically go with it). Because it’s “open” — 
compatible with a variety of monitors and other acces- 
sories — it’s more complex to set up. 
Path #10: The simplest, cheapest path: 
Apple lle with Swyftcard 
or Canon Cat. 
If all this seems unnecessarily expensive and Byzanti- 
nely overcomplicated to you, there’s at least one plain, 
inexpensive solution. Buy an Apple Ile, an otherwise 
antiquated and frustrating computer (in my opinion) 
and fit it with Swyftcard/Swyftdisk, a $39.95 writing, 
calculating, and telecommunications tool of un- 
usual simplicity. 
The Canon Cat is an extended adaptation of the 
Swyftcard, with a box and monitor. You can set up the 
Cat easily as a bulletin board for other people to call, 
but the Swyftcard has the advantage of allowing you to 
use that cumbersome, old-fashioned Apple Ile for 
other things — like exploring the many games and 
educational programs still available for it. 
machines, metaphors, and manufacturers, 
you will be guided through hacker in-jokes 
and skilled pithy judgements. Nelson is 
is 
sometimes justly criticized for quirkiness and! 
self-indulgence; but he has an innate ability 
to judge the significance of particular tech- 
COMP. 
UTERS 
nologies, shared by few other writers. He 
has, in this edition, also recreated what was 
then and is still the most fun-to-read com- 
puter book of all time. 
[ope 
—Art Kleiner 
NON- COMPUTER PERSONS 
V JEW OF THE WoRL 
Comporer_ PERSONS 
View OF THE WOR) 
The Ney- Gye Adewld 
