18 MEMES 
%* THE SCIENCE OF * 
INFORMATION VIRUSES 
by Keith Henson 
We don’ thaveascience of social prediction. Until recently 
we haven’t even had much in the way of theories. Our 
continual surprise at the development of cults, religions, 
wars, fads, and other social movements is a notable excep- 
tion to the steady progress humans have made in building 
better models of our environment. Our lack of good 
models must be considered a major deficiency. 
A successful theory for the development of social move- 
ments will have to provide a unifying theory for events that 
make up much of the evening news. It will have to discover 
common features that lie behind the diverse trends causing 
problems in Nicaragua, South Africa, Northern Ireland 
and the Middle East. It should be able to produce a 
plausible model for the breakup of the Rajneesh cult. The 
theory should be able to predict the conditions under which 
Turkey will be subverted by a fundamentalist version of 
Islam similar to that which has led to so much grief in Iran. 
Tentative answers to these questions are beginning to 
emerge from the new field of memetics. Memetics (from 
meme, which rhymes with cream) is an outgrowth of 
evolutionary biology. It takes the age-old saying “ideas 
have a life of their own” literally, and applies models from 
biology to the evolution, spread, and persistence of ideas 
(memes) in human culture. 
One aspect of memetics can be thought of as “germ theory 
applied to ideas.” Social movements can be modeled as 
side effects of infectious ideas that spread among people in 
a way mathematically identical to the way epidemic dis- 
ease spreads. Drug fads, for example, have closely fol- 
lowed epidemic-like curves. I don’t think it can be demon- 
strated that civil authority has any more effect on the 
course of these “epidemics” than it had on the course of the 
Black Death. At a deeper level, research in neuro-science 
and artificial intelligence is starting to develop an under- 
standing of why we are susceptible to “infectious informa- 
tion,” both the benign and the deadly. 
“Meme” is a word coined in purposeful analogy to “gene” 
by Richard Dawkins in his 1976 book, The Selfish Gene. 
To understand memes, you must have a good understand- 
ing of the modern concepts of evolution, and this is a good 
source. In the last chapter of Dawkins’ book memes were 
defined as replicating information patterns that use minds 
to get themselves copied much as a virus uses cells to get 
itself copied. (Dawkins credits several others for develop- 
ing the concepts, especially the anthropologist F. T. 
Cloak.) Like genes, memes are pure information, whether 
the sequence is coded in DNA, printed on 
paper, or written 
on magnetic tape. 
Humans are not the only creatures that pass memes about. 
Birds can learn variations of songs. The songs of whales 
are also replicating information patterns that fit the model 
of a meme. So is the termite-catching technique that 
chimps pass from generation to generation. 
Meme is similar to “idea,” but not all ideas are memes. A 
passing idea which you do not communicate to others, or 
one which fails to take root in others, falls short of being 
a meme. The important part of the “meme about memes” 
is that memes are subject to adaptive evolutionary forces 
very similar to those that select for genes. That is, their 
variation is subject to selection in the environment pro- 
vided by human minds, communication channels, and the 
vast collection of cooperating and competing memes that 
make up human culture. The analogy is remarkably close. 
For example, genes in cold viruses that cause sneezes by 
irritating noses spread themselves by this route to new 
hosts and become more 
common in the gene pool 
of a cold virus. Memes 
cause those they have suc- 
cessfully infected to spread 
the meme by both direct methods 
(proselytizing) 
and 
indirect 
methods (such as writing). Such 
memes become more common 
in the culture pool. 
The entire topic would be aca- 
demic except that there are two 
levels of evolution (genes and 
memes) involved and the 
memetic 
level 
is only 
loosely coupled 
to the 
genetic. Memes 
which 
override genetic survival, 
such as those which in- 
duce young 
Lebanese 
Shiites to blow them- 
selves “into the next 
world” from the front 
seat of a truck loaded 
with high explosives, or 
induce untrained Iranians to volunteer to charge 
Iraqi machine guns, or the WWII Kamikaze “social move- 
ment” in Japan are all too well known. I have proposed the 
term “memeoid” for people whose behavior is so strongly 
influenced by a replicating information pattern (meme) 
that their survival becomes inconsequential in their own 
minds. 
Given that memes have been interfering with our repro- 
duction for a long time, one must wonder why humans are 
The Selfish Gene 
Richard Dawkins 
$7.95 
postpaid from: 
Oxford University 
Press 
Attn: Order Dept. 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
201/796-8000 
This book contains the first mention of memes as 
tools of evolutionary change. Just as a gene is a 
unit of information in the DNA molecule, 
a meme is 
a unit of information (an idea, a song, a notion of 
fashion or politics, etc.) that lodges in our minds 
and is capable of changing us. And just like any 
living organism, a meme’s basic goal is to repro- 
duce itself. By writing this review, | have passed a 
meme on to you. If you are receptive, you will read 
the book and tell your friends about it. They, in 
still so susceptible to information diseases. The answers to 
such questions are starting to come from research in 
artificial intelligence, neuroscience, and archeology. It is 
becoming apparent that our vulnerabilities are a directcon- 
sequence of the way our minds are organized, and that or- 
ganization is a direct consequence of our evolutionary his- 
tory. 
-Marvin Minsky (a principal 
founder of AI) and Michael 
Gazzaniga (one of the major 
workers in split brain research) 
have independently come to a vir- 
tually identical model 
of the mind. Both 
view minds as vast 
collections of inter- 
acting, largely parallel 
(co-conscious) 
modules 
or 
“agents,” or a “Society of Mind.” 
The lowest level of such a society 
of agents consists of a small num- 
ber of nerve cells that innervate a sec- 
tion of muscle. A few of the higher-level 
modules have been isolated in clever ex- 
periments by Gazzaniga, some of them on 
patients whose right and left hemispheres 
had been divided by trauma or surgery. 
One surprise from this work is that we 
seem to have our mental modules ar- 
ranged in a way that guarantees we will form 
beliefs. What we believe in depends, at least 
in part, on what we are exposed to and the order 
in which we are exposed. Gazzaniga argues that 
we slowly evolved the ability to form beliefs because the 
ability provides a major advantage in surviving. Being 
able to infer, that is to form new beliefs, and to learn, in the 
sense of acquiring such beliefs from others, was a major 
advance over learning by trial and error. Being able to pass 
the rare new ways our ancestors found for chipping rock or 
making pots from person to person and generation to 
generation was vital in allowing humans to spread over the 
Earth. 
turn, will tell other friends. And on and on. 
— Richard Kadrey 
Sd 
Just as genes propagate themselves in the gene pool by 
leaping from body to body via sperms or eggs, so 
memes propagate themselves in the meme pool by 
leaping from brain to brain via a process which, in the 
broad sense, can be called imitation. If a scientist hears, 
or reads about, a good idea, he passes it on to his col- 
leagues and students. He mentions it in his articles and’ 
lectures. If the idea catches on, it can be said to propa- 
gate itself, spreading from brain to brain. As my col- 
league N. K. Humphrey neatly summed up an earlier 
draft of this chapter: “. . 
. memes should be regarded as 
living structures, not just metaphorically but technically. 
When you plant a fertile meme in my mind you literally 
parasitize my brain, turning it into a vehicle for the 
meme’s propagation in just the way that a virus may 
parasitize the genetic mechanism of a host cell. And this 
isn’t just a way of talking — the meme for, say, ‘belief in 
life after death’ is actually realized physically, millions of 
times over, as a structure in the nervous system of 
individual men the world over.” 
