How to Produce Your Own 
Videoconference 
Georgia A. Mathis 
1987; 165 pp..- 
$36.95 
($39.95 postpaid) from: 
Knowledge Industry 
Publications, Inc. 
701 Westchester Avenue 
White Plains, NY 10604 
800/248-5474 
or Whole Earth Access 
What a delicious treat a video-teleconference 
would be if it worked. But, so far it only kind of 
works. 
What you want is two-way video and audio, that is, 
equal communication for any participant. What you 
get in practice is one-way video via satellite, and 
two-way voice via phone lines. That means one 
side sees nothing (in seminars that blind side is the 
speaker, and in TV news it’s the person being 
interviewed live). Just as bad, both sides share the 
technical handicap of having one conversation split 
between a high road/ow road transmission. 
Despite these grim flaws, a videoconference can 
liberate a far-flung project from stagnation in airport 
Where To 
Have Your 
Video- 
Teleconference 
by Richard Kadrey 
US Sprint’s “The Meeting 
Channel” provides video- 
teleconferencing facilities in 
over 300 locations in 25 coun- 
tries (including mainland 
China), and the number of 
locations is growing all the 
time. When this kind of confer- 
encing was introduced a few 
years ago, the first people to take advantage of it were 
big companies wanting to save on travel expenses — 
Atlantic Richfield, Xerox, JC Penny, Citibank, etc.; they 
used corporate “private rooms” hooked right into The 
Meeting Channels’ fiber optic lines. Now, anyone can 
book time on The Meeting Channel using one of 
Sprint’s “public rooms.” Depending on the quality of 
the transmission you need (e.g., the speed of the trans- 
mission over the lines), your location, and the location 
you want to talk to, you can have a video-teleconference 
for as little as $60 or as much as $2,400 an hour. Rates 
for three or more locations tied together start at $120 an 
hour. However, video conferencing is still primitive 
enough that hooking up more than 2 locations at once 
may require you to make some big compromises. 
Let’s say you want to hold a video conference between 
4 locations: San Francisco, Houston, Chicago, and New 
York. First, you should book this type of conference as 
early as possible, at least a week in advance. And since 
VIDEO-TELECONFERENCING 
Phone room set up to receive questions from remote sites in an area 
removed from the studio to assure quiet for the operators. A monitor 
is provided so the operators can watch the program. 
waiting rooms, and enliven a undertaking that 
depends on the personality of a few people, such 
as politics. This book is the most concrete and 
useful one out of a whole lot of theoretical books 
on the topic. 
— Kevin Kelly 
e 
Hotel sites are most often chosen for videoconference 
networks. This is true for several reasons: 
1. Hotels are equipped with meeting space. 
each Sprint public room is different, you will want to 
ask what kind of equipment is available at each location. 
Most sites have color video cameras, but some also have 
VCR’s and graphics terminals plugged into The Meet- 
ing Channel’s lines. 
When you make a reservation for a multipoint confer- 
ence, you will have to designate one of the locations as 
the Master Site, in this example San Francisco; this 
location can send audio and video to all the other rooms; 
another location, say New York, is called the Primary 
Site. All four locations can hear this site, but the Pri- 
mary can speak and reply only to the Master Site. The 
other two sites, Houston and Chicago, cannot broadcast, 
but only receive sound and images from the Master and 
Primary sites. 
Broadcasting at Sprint’s lowest recommended speed 
(768 kbps), your video conference will cost you $450 
per half hour for the transmission, plus $150 per hour 
for room rental at each site, coming to a total of $3,100 
for your 3 hour conference. 
A new player in the video-teleconferencing industry, 
and one that promises to make this kind of meeting 
commonplace, is Holiday Inn. They now provide “re- 
ceiving rooms” for video conferences, rooms that can 
only receive signals, not send one. Prices start at $200 
for a half-day (4 hours) room rental, a $100 set-up fee, 
and $400 - $600 equipment rental (video monitors are 
cheaper to rent than video projectors, etc.). You can 
book rooms on relatively short notice, and since you can 
hardly throw a rock without hitting a Holiday Inn, 
setting up a video conference is easier than ever. Now if 
they can only figure out a way for us to see AND talk to 
each location, you’d have the hottest thing in communi- 
cations since pink princess phones. 
2. Some hotel chains (e.g., Holiday Inns, Inc. and Marri- 
ott Corp.) have a great deal of experience with videocon- 
ferencing and may even have all the technical equip- 
ment you need on site. 
There are some things to watch out for, though, when 
dealing with hotels for your videoconference. In most 
cases, a videoconference is not an extremely important 
piece of business for them. They place videoconfer- 
encing in the same category as weddings and local club 
dinners because you will probably use only a limited 
amount of their space, your attendees will be in and out 
quickly, and it is unlikely that you will use many overnight 
rooms or need much food service. 
e 
Public television stations, through the PBS system, 
made up the first real network of videoconference re- 
ceive sites. This is because the PBS system itself was 
the first TV network to be delivered by satellite... Here 
are some positive aspects of using public television 
stations: 
1. The price is often lower than at hotels. You can expect 
to pay from $500 to $2000 a day to use their facilities. 
2. The equipment you need, and qualified technicians to 
run it, are already at the site. 
3. The PBS system has a department in Alexandria, VA 
called ConferSat (part of PBS Enterprises) to help you 
book suitable space at stations, thus saving you a lot of 
legwork. 
The Meeting Channel 
Further information free from: The Meeting Channel, US 
Sprint, 1815 Century Boulevard, Atlanta, GA 30345; 800/ 
241-8470. 
Holiday Inn 
For Holiday Inn information, contact the location 
nearest you. 
Video-Teleconferencing Magazines 
by Richard Kadrey 
Video teleconferencing is a new enough phenomenon 
that useful publications about it are still rare. And the 
ones that are useful tend to be expensive. The following 
short list of magazines will keep you up to date on 
what’s happening on the video teleconferencing front. 
Two of them are well over $150 a year, so you might try 
talking your company or local library (or a nearby 
business library) into stocking them. 
TeleSpan 
Shirley Singletany, Editor; $207/year (12 issues) from: 
TeleSpan, Inc., 50 West Palm Street, Altadena, CA 
91001; 818/797-5482 
Telecommunications Policy 
Susan Hunter, Editor; $141/year (4 issues) from: 
Butterworth Publishers, 80 Montvale Avenue, Stoneham, 
MA 02180; 800/548-4001 
Teleconference 
Patty Portway, Editor; $60/year (6 issues) from: Applied 
Business Communications, Inc., P. O. Box 5106, San 
Ramon, CA 94583-0906; 415/820-556 
81 
