80 
ON-LINE ACTIVISM 
PeaceNet 
3228 Sacramento Street, 
San Francisco, CA 94115; 
415/923-0900 
This computer messaging serv- 
ice hosts over a hundred on- 
line conferences for peace 
and social activist groups: 
EcoNet (ecological issues), 
HomeoNet (a homeopathic 
doctor’s conference), the 
National Freeze Cam- 
paign, the Christic Insti- 
tute, the Central America 
Resource Network, the 
Center for Innovative Di- 
plomacy, Institute for Secu- 
rity and Cooperation in Outer 
Space, etc. It’s worth joining not 
just for the news-postings and calendars of events 
(e.g. American Peace Test’s schedule of nuclear 
blasts at the Nevada test site), but because partici- 
pating groups often use PeaceNet to administer 
themselves. It’s a treat to follow discussions of 
internal issues, goals, strategies and tactics, and 
most times kibitzers can add their two cents. Open- 
ness is an important principle for many of these 
groups; PeaceNet makes that ideal both practi- 
cable and involving. (The system has limited-ac- 
cess sections and electronic mail facilities, too.) 
Reachable in larger cities through Telenet, after a 
sign-up fee of $10, the cost is 
$10 per month, plus 
$5 per hour (off-peak) and .005 cents per kilobyte 
for disk storage in excess of 100k. Groups get 
discounts. 
— Robert Horvitz 
Power Structure Research 
Database 
4 floppy disks. $35/$100 from Micro Associates, 
P. O. Box 5369, Arlington, VA 22205 
For the past ten years, Daniel Brandt has been 
compiling a “power structure research” database 
with its own easy-to-use, search-and-sort software 
designed to run on a microcomputer. It presently 
contains the names of nearly 30,000 individuals 
and groups identified in 55,000 citations from 
books and articles about the intelligence commu- 
nity, big business, the U.S. foreign policy establish- 
ment, domestic spying and political infiltration, 
assassination and conspiracy theories, and right- 
wing organizations. 
Each name-entry is linked to as many as 50 pub- 
lished sources. Names associated with a foreign 
country at a certain time can be identified by speci- 
fying the place and time span of interest. For ex- 
ample, if you want a printout of all the names in the 
database connected with Chile from 1970 to 1973, 
along with citations of publications describing their 
activities, 
a few simple commands will do it. 
The database is available as a set of three double- 
sided floppy disks, with programs on a fourth 
The National 
Security Archive 
1755 Massachusetts Avenue NW/Ste. 500, 
Washington, D.C. 20036; 202/797-0882 
Former Washington Post reporter Scott 
Armstrong’s initial idea was to create a 
public depository for documents con- 
cerning U.S. national security, foreign 
policy, military and intelligence activities 
obtained via Freedom of Information Act 
requests. Acquiring documents turned 
out to be just the start. Most of what the 
National Security Archive does now is 
assemble and index topical collections from pri- 
mary sources to provide “as complete a documen- 
tary record of recent and contemporary policymak- 
ing as possible within the constraints of security 
classification.” 
Current projects range from the history of U.S. 
military uses of space to the evolution of U.S. 
policy toward South Africa 1960-87. The Archive 
sells such collections and their indexes 
— Robert Horvitz 
Electronic Information 
Exchange System 
Computerized Conferencing and Communications 
Center, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, 
NJ 07102; 201-596-EIES 
EIES is a computerized conferencing system de- 
signed to facilitate communication among geo- 
graphically dispersed groups of people. Over the 
years it has been the site of some of the bravest 
experiments in this new computer communication 
medium. CareNet, an active Latin American re- 
source network uses the system (also accessible 
on PeaceNet), as well as the Whole Earth Review, 
and Western Behavioral Sciences Institute — that 
should get the reward for the best experimental 
educational use of computer conferencing. One 
aspect of EIES of great interest is the Virtual class- 
room being developed by Starr Roxanne Hiltz, one 
of the founders of EIES. Virtual classroom online 
conferences are being developed to support col- 
lege level course work, including ongoing dialog, 
assignments, exams, class discussions, etc. 
— Steve Johnson 
floppy. The software provides phonetic and lead- 
ing-letter search capabilities for names 
whose spelling is uncertain. Purchasers receive 
update announcements every quarter, and are 
entitled to buy later editions at discount prices. The 
cost of a four-disk set is $35 for individuals and 
nonprofit organizations, $100 for all others. An 
outstanding example of political/infotech activism. 
Anyone curious or concerned about the web of 
influences operating behind the surface of democ- 
racy should have a copy. When ordering, be sure 
to specify the type of computer it'll run on. Versions 
are currently available for devices running CP/M, 
DOS 2.0 or 3.0. 
— Robert Horvitz 
Secret Department of State cable, now declassified, dated November 
9, 1978, from Ambassador to Iran William H. Sullivan. Nine weeks 
before the Shah fell, it is titled "Thinking the Unthinkable” and dis- 
cusses the first registered, official concern that the Shah might not 
survive the growing turmoil in Iran. 
Secret Department of State cable, now declassified but heavily ex- 
cised, discusses a conversation with a Salvadoran official which id- 
entified "six Salvadoran millionaire emigres in Miami" as responsible 
for directing and financing right wing death squads and probably the 
murders of American citizens. 
New York On Line 
P.O. Box 829, Brooklyn, NY 11202; 
718/852-2662 
NYOL is a bulletin board system for progressive 
groups and individuals who wish to share informa- 
tion and resources locally and nationwide. Some of 
the information online includes resource lists of 
groups active on issues such as Central America 
and Southern Africa; information and analysis of 
the “Contragate” scandal; articles and essays on 
the implications of computers for working people; 
information on desktop publishing and design; 
calendars of events and newswire services. 
Southscan is a weekly bulletin of Southern Africa. 
The will shortly be initiating a similar service di- 
rectly from Managua, Nicaragua. 
— Steve Johnson 
Telecommunications Cooperative 
Network (TCN) 
505 Eighth Avenue, Suite 1805, New York, NY 
10018; 212/714-9780 
TCN provides low-cost long distance and computer 
communications exclusively to nonprofit groups. It 
currently has 
1,000 member organizations, includ- 
ing foundations, universities, hospitals, associa- 
tions, religious and public interest organizations. 
The TCN computer communications system is run 
on the Dialcom system. It provides electronic 
messenging services as well as gateway to other 
computerized information services including the 
UPI newswire, and the CITITEX community devel- 
opment program data. Groups that constitute the 
cooperative vary in range from the American Civil 
Liberties Union to the Boys Club of America, from 
the Agricultural Development Center to the Ameri- 
— 
can Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani- 
mals, Columbia University, the Aspen Music Festi- 
val and Nuclear Times. 
— Steve Johnson 
