112 PERFORMANCE ART 
Communication Without Media 
by Kevin Kelly 
Performance art, as I see it, is communication through no 
media, or more accurately through a non-media. Rather than 
express via canvas, paper, video, dance, voice, or theater, 
performance artists live out their concepts. It gives them that 
weird, you-can’t-be-serious color. A couple is tied together for 
a year by an eightfoot leash; they never touch one another, nor 
untie the rope even when they sleep. Doing becomes their 
1984) attached at the waist by an eight-foot length of rope. 
They were not allowed to touch each other during that time. 
media. When materials are crucial, as in the case of the techno- 
logical contraptions of Survival Research or the drapings of Christo, they are considered mere artifacts of the more 
important art of pure process. Exploration of process is a vital element in most great artists, past or present. But per- 
formance artists strip away the outward form of media, until they live in the naked doing itself. 
SRL’s Walking Machine with Flame Thrower. Look closely at the 
fuzzy black thing on top. That's Stu the guinea pig, controlling the 
machine's movements with his legs. 
Survival Research Laboratories 
Information free from Target Video, 678 South Van 
Ness, San Francisco, CA 94110; 415/863-0118 or Re/ 
Search, 20 Romolo Street, Suite B, San Francisco, CA 
94133; 415/362-1465 
Defining Survival Research Laboratories is not 
easy. They are performance artists or, rather, the 
directors of a performance group. The actual per- 
formers are machines. Nightmare constructions; 
bits and pieces of scavenged industrial equipment, 
the flotsam of a post-industrial society. These 
found machines are stripped down, rebuilt, given 
new identities and personalities, then let loose on 
each other in parking lots and warehouse spaces 
in performances of mechanical savagery. 
But the performances are not just sensational 
Bread and Circuses destruction. SRL’s shows 
function as a sophisticated and sinister version of a 
Fun House mirror: a twisted mixture of familiar 
images (bizarre cars, destructive construction 
equipment, ludicrous mechanical men) and highly 
political satire. 
Survival Research Laboratories are not to be 
read about, but experienced. If you can’t get to 
one of their performances in San Francisco or New 
York, you can check out the numerous videos of 
their work. Whether you like them or not, you will 
be impressed. 
— Richard Kadrey 
Art Com 
Catalog $5 from Art Com/La Mamelle, Inc., P.O. Box 
3123, Rincon Annex, San Francisco, CA 94119-3123; 
415/431-7524, ext. 7672 
Your one-stop shopping source for performance 
art, on any medium you like: broadcast, closed 
circuit, and VHS videos; videodiscs; and computer 
software. Art Com also has an online magazine on 
the Art Com Electronic Network. It’s accessible in 
the San Francisco Bay Area, through The WELL 
(415/332-6106 for modem), or, in the rest of the 
US, on PC PURSUIT 
(800/336-0437 for informa- 
tion) and TYMNET (800/336-0149 for information). 
— Sarah Vandershaf 
Pranks! 
Andrea Juno and V. Vale 
1987; 239 pp. 
$14.99 
($17 postpaid) from: 
Re/Search publications 
20 Romolo #B 
San Francisco, CA 94133 
415/362-1465 
or Whole Earth Access 
Pranks! is a hilarious book that had me laughing 
out loud. At the same time it is a manual 
of cultural subversion that administers a 
hot-foot to the archetypes of authority 
and robotic propriety. In a series of over 
30 interviews, counterculture figures, 
performing artists, filmmakers, and other 
assorted provocateurs describe their 
favorite pranks and the philosophies that 
motivated them. From psychedelic revo- 
lutionary Tim Leary to raunch-film direc- 
tor John Waters (Pink Flamingos, 
Hairspray) to the Velvet Underground's 
John Cale, the lineup of interviewees is 
truly remarkable. 
But Pranks! isn’t just a recounting of 
naughty anecdotes. Many 
of those inter- 
viewed, such as Earth First! environ- 
mentalist Mike Roselle, perform their 
pranks as the most direct way of getting 
serious points across. And thanks to the 
intellectual style Andrea Juno and V. 
Vale, Pranks! comes off as a statement 
of avante-garde philosophy — a kind of 
High Performance 
(A Quarterly Magazine for 
the New Arts Audience) 
Steven Durland, Editor 
$20/year 
(4 issues) from: 
High Performance 
240 South Broadway, 5th Floor 
Los Angeles, CA 90012 
Provocative quarterly exami- 
ning the work of artists who, 
in making their lives their art, cut closer and closer 
to the bone while extending you the invitation to 
push your perceptual limits. Lots of photos and 
lucid, entertaining writing make even the most 
challenging contemporary art intriguing and 
accessible. 
—Sarah Satterlee 
o 
On the bus, literally and figuratively, the 30 or so audi- 
ence members proceeded through the busy Broadway 
area. At a bus stop, Dobrowolski and Slater came 
aboard as Louise and Rose, who began a bickering, 
mutually critical, melodramatic and rather stylized dialog, 
revealing a shared childhood memory of bus rides with 
their grandmothers. Their argument grew louder until the 
driver pulled over on a darkened side street, shut off the 
engine, said, “Jesus Christ, | can’t take any more of this,” 
and departed. 
cosmic wake-up call from an extended under- 
ground of surrealist artists. 
—Ted Schultz 
¢ 
When you use the phone don’t ever waste a wrong 
number. For instance, if someone calls up and says, “Is 
Jack there?” don't say, “I’m sorry, you have the wrong 
number.” Say, “Hang on, |’ll see. Who's calling?” Then 
wait a second. “I’m sorry, Jack doesn’t want to talk to 
you. Jack is still very angry, and he doesn't want to 
discuss it.” 
Bob Zoell, a graphic designer and artist living in Los Angeles, infil- 
trated the wide world of parking signs with hundreds of lookalikes 
bearing quixotic messages. 
1 WISH 
| 
Art = Ea 
CALL 
THE 
POLICE 
AV RK AS) 
Day “Iss 
ING 
KIDS 
HELLO 
