COMPUTER BULLETIN BOARDS 
The Bulletin Board Proletariat 
VOLUNTEER PROLETARIAT 
maintains one of the most invisible 
communication undergrounds 
going. Linked by phone lines, a 
web of computer bulletin board systems (BBSs) 
work night-duty collating messages and elec- 
tronic mail for free. Regulars patronize small- 
time BBSs because they can feast on immediate 
gossip about very specialized subjects. Name a 
topic and there is almost certainly a BBS dedi- 
cated to it somewhere. 
To get onto a BBS, you dial a phone number with 
your computer, and after reading the welcome 
message, you follow a menu of choices until you 
arrive at a topic you like. You can then read 
messages left by others (the bulletin board aspect) 
and post some of your own by typing them in. 
The result is a public answering machine, on 
which anyone can read all messages. Comments 
are served to you intelligently so that you read 
only the ones posted since you last checked in, no 
matter how long that’s been. If you’ve been gone 
two weeks, you read two weeks’ worth, and then 
you’re caught up to the center of what is being 
said. It'll seem to the other callers that you were 
there all along, keeping quiet. The sum is a col- 
lective conversation that continues for weeks or 
months, and which happens at your convenience. 
In theory they stick to one topic. In practice 
there’s enough continuity to keep it informative, 
and enough diversity to keep it alive. 
Any old computer will let you in. You fit it out 
with a telephone adapter, called a modem (about 
$100), and plug it into the phone jack. You’ll find 
listings of public BBSs in the back of Computer 
Shopper ($18/year from Patch Publishing, P.O. 
Box F, Titusville, FL 32781), in regional tabloids 
like California’s Computer Currents and Mi- 
crotimes, and at user-group meetings. Once you 
find one, it’ll lead you to many others, board 
hopping as long-distance as you care to. Pirate 
boards, the truly underground BBSs where teen- 
age hackers boast of their exploits, appear and 
disappear so fast they can only be found by hop- 
ping. 
Propelling much of the drive in regular use of 
BBSs is the superhighway of PC Pursuit (800/ 
336-0437). Run by Telenet, PC Pursuit lets any- 
one call BBSs located in most cities for a flat 
$25-per-month fee, unlimited time, as long as it’s 
in the evening. Without PC Pursuit many notable 
BBSs would be out of reach for half the country. 
No one knows exactly how many bulletin board 
systems there are. The best guess is that there are 
about 7,000 operating at one particular time. They 
(818) 
24 
comes a hassle to maintain over the long stretch. 
While it’s up and running, though, it’s promoting 
a new brand of conversation. BBS sysops (system 
operators) keep them going because of the unsur- 
passed advantages of having people from all over 
the country calling in at their own expense to post 
amazing messages on the very subject one cares 
about. 
BBSs are a gathering medium, not a broadcasting 
channel. The ones that work sculpt a comfortable 
visiting space to welcome comments. Dave 
Hughes, the pioneer tele-communications vision- 
ary, says the acid test for a BBS is if it averages 
one posted message for every two calls in. Any 
fewer messages and it will fade rapidly. 
To start your own home-based BBS, you’ll need 
a computer, modem, and one of these recom- 
mended software packages. For the Apple, we 
suggest GBBS. It’s easy to set up in less than an 
hour, takes customized modifications superbly, 
and tends to be crash-proof. Consensus in the 
Macintosh world is that Red Ryder Host is the 
ticket for a home-based Mac BBS. Since it 
doesn’t matter too much what computer you use, 
the most efficient way is to run your BBS on an 
IBM clone. The choice for IBM and compatible 
is TBBS. It’s programmable by amateurs, and has 
been around a long time. Release 2.1 comes in 
three flavors. Single phone line (still about $300); 
Eight and sixteen line, which will take up to eight 
and sixteen phone lines, respectively ($895 for 8 
lines; $1495 for 16 lines). Another option allows 
you to send mail to the free-forwarding FIDO 
service linking up BBSs at night ($100). With 
both FIDO mail and 8 or 16 lines in, a souped-up 
BBS approaches the capabilities of a local tele- 
conferencing system like the WELL. In fact, 
having both public and private access to your 
personal answering machine is the innovation 
brewing here. A BBS may be part of the house- 
hold furniture someday. 
TBBS: Version 2.0. For IBM and compatibles; 
needs 384K and hard disk for single line. Not 
copy-protected. $300 for single line, $895 for 8 
line, $1495 for 16 line, $100 for FIDO mail; from: 
eSoft, 4100 South Parker Road/Box 305, 
Aurora, CO 80014; 303/699-6565. 
GBBS: Version 1.3. For Apple family; needs two 
drives. Not copy-protected. $128 postpaid from: 
L & L Productions, P. O. Box 5354, Arvada, CO 
80005; 303/420-3156. 
Red Ryder Host: Version 1.4A. For Macintosh, 
Mac Plus, and Macintosh SE; needs 512K. Not 
copy-protected. $60 postpaid from: FreeSoft, 
150 Hickory Drive, Beaver Falls, PA 15010; 412/ 
846-2700. 
N@SS. Freg a 
.CONSCious- 
ap 300/1200 
| things Should 
come and go with the irregularity of phone line 
» (415) 937. 
static. Immensely easy to start, a BBS usually be- 
