66 
COPY MACHINES 
Why I Love My Used 
Copy Machine 
by Tom Ferguson 
I relied on an outside copy service for my first ten years 
as a full time writer. I didn’t really think I needed my 
own copier — I only averaged 30-50 copies per week, 
and that only meant a trip or two to my local copy shop. 
Then about a year ago my wife Meredith received a 
small Canon Personal Copier as a present, and we sud- 
denly found dozens of new ways to use it: Meredith 
used it for her archeology research. I brought my “to 
copy” file home each night. Our daughter Adrienne 
made copies of her notes for for her friends at school. 
And friends began dropping over regularly “to use your 
copy machine.” It was small, convenient, and quite nice 
to have around. I once overheard my wife, on the phone, 
telling a friend that her new copier was “even cuter than 
my husband.” 
We didn’t know how we’d managed without it. Since it 
was now much more convenient to make copies, I soon 
found myself averaging 60-100 copies per week. And I 
began to think of how convenient it would be if I had 
another machine at the office. 
It wasn’t just laziness. Sometimes I’d be sending out a 
letter, and would want to enclose a copy of the article 
I’d just written. But it wasn’t important enough to make 
it worth holding the letter until I could get home to 
make a copy. I realized that there would be even more 
uses for a copier if I had one at the office. So finally the 
day came when I began to shop for an office copier. 
My first thought was to get another Canon. But in talk- 
ing to friends and salespeople, I realized that the Canon, 
wonderful as it was, was a light-duty model. Maximum 
recommended use was 400-500 copies per month. You 
were not supposed to leave it on between copies. That 
meant you had to wait for it to warm up each time you 
used it. I began looking at some of the small office 
Canon PC-20 Personal Copier 
Suggested retail $1,095; actually available for far less 
(down to about $700). Check local Canon dealers and 
discount office-supply outfits. Cartridges containing toner 
in assorted colors, drum and developer are about $80. 
I’ve come to believe that a personal copier is as 
important as a personal computer for doing re- 
search, writing, almost any intellectual activity. 
Having one vastly accelerated a book project for 
me — | copied notes from my notebooks and 
quotes from books and taped them onto 5 x 8 
cards, and those cards became the handy coin of 
the book’s realm. | share information more now, 
because it’s so easy to knock out a copy for some- 
one, and I file stuff more reliably in multiple ver- 
sions. A copier is even invaluable around the home 
— copy the recipe from a bulky cookbook, copy 
the portion of the map you're driving on today, 
make a copy of Auntie’s postcard or Junior's 
theme for Mom. 
models you 
could leave on 
all day. They 
held three or 
four times as 
much paper. 
And they 
turned out to 
be a good deal 
less expensive — half 
a cent a copy vs. two to 
three cents per copy for the 
Canon. 
After visiting several 
local copier 
stores, I fell in 
love with a small 
Toshiba. There 
was only one 
problem — it 
listed for $1695. The Canon had been around $700. 
I decided to ask about used models. Now copier sales- 
people do not like to talk about used copiers. They 
would much prefer to sell you a new one. The used 
copier department is considered a step down in status, 
like the used car section at an auto dealer. But I finally 
found found a young saleswoman who seemed to know 
what I was talking about. 
She took me into a back room with an impressive selec- 
tion of old war-horses. They were slow and boxy, but 
they all produced beautiful copies, and the price was 
more than reasonable. I would have been happy to buy 
one, but I knew they simply would not fit in the small 
space I had available. 
I was about to leave, when the saleswomen “remem- 
bered” that they did have a small copier coming in on 
trade the following week. If I liked, she would give me 
first shot at it. It would be selling for $800. 
The great thing about the small copiers that have 
much of their high-tech in disposable cartridges is 
that they so seldom break down or even need 
fiddling with. In over a year of intense use I’ve had 
zero problems with my Canon. Limitation for artists 
and jokers: because the platen moves, it’s hard to 
make copies of your body parts. The machine 
doesn't enlarge or reduce or collate or work at high 
speed, but who cares? | can cart it around (with a 
little puffing), and its feed tray eliminates hand- 
feeding of paper. Not a cheap appliance, but its 
value is enormous, way more than | expected. 
wil, — Stewart Brand 
It turned out to be the little Toshiba I liked — in a older- 
model case they had made for 3M. It was not quite as 
cute, but it worked equally well — and for half the 
price. I took it home for a week’s trial — dealers are 
much more liberal about loaning used machines. It’s 
been an indispensable part of my office ever since. I 
currently make between 1,000 and 2,000 copies per 
month. 
Copier Half-tone Alternatives 
Copyscreen is available at most art supply stores, or for 
$3.25 from Dot Pasteup Supplies, 1612 California St., 
P.O. Box 369, Omaha, NE 68101; 800/228-7272. 
A half-tone is a photo that has been rephoto- 
graphed behind a black dot matrix; this breaks the 
image into individual dots so that it can later be re- 
produced in newspapers and magazines. 
Copyscreen is a clever variation on this idea, using 
a white dot matrix to simulate the half-tone proc- 
ess. Just place a Copyscreen onto the glass sur- 
face of any good copying machine and voila! — 
near half-tone quality for the five to fifteen cents it 
costs you for a regular copy. This is a great tool for 
making quick xeroxes for friends, and for little 
magazines that would like to run photos, but can’t 
afford photostats. 
— Richard Kadrey 
The top smile was copied unscreened, the middle using Copyscreen- 
1, a 65-line screen, and the bottom with Copyscreen-2, an 85-line 
screen. 
