Artist unknown. 
Ballast 
Roy R. Behrens, Editor 
eight 25¢ stamps/year 
- 
or 2 stamps/single 
issue from: 
Ballast 
Art Academy of Cincinnati 
Eden Park 
Cincinnati, OH 45202 
In exchange for a few stamps per year, 
you'll receive this idiosyncratic dispatch of 
verbal illusions and visual anecdotes. 
Works like conceptual anti-freeze — 
keeps your inspiration unclogged. May it 
live long. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Sd 
When artists are living and working as closely 
together as we were in those years, they are 
all obviously influenced in some degree by one 
another. | remember one day when Juan Gris 
told me about a bunch of grapes he had seen 
in a painting by Picasso. The next day these grapes 
appeared in a painting by Gris, this time in a bowl; and 
the day after, the bowl appeared in a painting by Pi- 
casso. 
—Jacques Lipchitz, with H.H. Arnason, My Life in Sculp- 
ture (New York: Viking Press, 1972), P. 40. 
Sd 
The Wapituil are like us to an extraordinary degree. They 
have a kinship system which is very similar to our kin- 
ship system. They address each other as “Mister,” “Mis- 
tress,” and “Miss.” They wear clothes which look very 
An example of visual metamorphosis by the 19th century caricaturist 
and illustrator, Jean Ignace Isidore Gerard, more commonly known 
by his pen name, Grandville. 
213 
much like our clothes. They have a Fifth Avenue which 
divides their territory into east and west. They have a 
Chock Full 0’ Nuts and a Chevrolet, one of each. They 
have a Museum of Modern Art and a telephone and a 
The evolution of the 
piano, according to 
Darwin, a cartoon 
Martini, one of each. The Martini and the telephone are 
first published in 
kept in the Museum of Modern Art. In fact, they have 
Berlin in 1872. Artist 
everything that we have, but only one of each thing. .. 
. 
unknown. 
The sex life of a Wapituil consists of a single experience, 
which he thinks about for a long time. 
—Donald Barthelme, “Brain Damage” in his book of 
short stories, City Life (NY: Bantam, 1971) 
Haircuts of young Native American males of the Osage and Omaha nations were indications 
of the plant or animal clan with which they were associated. For example, the first haircut 
from the left on the top row was analogous to the head and tail of an elk, while the second 
from the right on the bottom row was emblematic of the teeth of a reptile. See F. La Flesche, 
“The Osage Child-Naming Rite” in 43rd Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology 
1925-1926 (Washington, D.C., 1928). 
5 
Unless you have some Oz in you, you will go along with 
Seeing the Light 
James Broughton 
1977; 80 pp. 
President Holdfast and General Apathy. You will believe 
$3.50 
in doctors, insurance companies, statistics, national 
($5 postpaid) from: 
defense, pensions, retirement communities, and a thor- 
City Lights Books 
oughly safe dwindle. You will garner some fringe bene- 
' 
261 Columbus 
San Francisco, CA 94133 
415/362-8193 
¢ 
| love going to the editing table. It is an altar of myster- 
ies. Dust it off devotedly. Let us consecrate. At any 
moment a temporal ecstasy may occur. 
fits but miss out on the central Benefit. 
| wish everyone would do a book like this, made of 
the things they say to themselves to keep them- 
selves doing what they do well. Embarrassing stuff 
— bombastic, personal, and wholly invaluable to 
anyone else trying to do something well. The reve- 
lant here is avant-garde filmmaker James 
Broughton. 
—Stewart Brand 
5 
You may be reeking of talent, but real art comes from 
knowledge. No work can be greater than the man who 
made it. 
¢ 
Oz is run by witches and little girls. Its queen is a 10- 
year-old named Ozma. No one in Oz can get sick or 
grow old or die. No one earns a living, puts on weight, or 
thinks deeply. In short, Oz is everything the U.S. would 
secretly like to be. The surest way of getting there: go to 
the very heart of America. That should be Kansas. There 
get yourself into the cockpit of a cyclone. Off you go! 
However, the landing fields in Oz are unpredictable. 
Sensibly there is no airport near the capitol. You are 
bound to come down in the middle of an adventure, not 
a predicament. 
Making a film is a more hazardous act than looking at one. For you 
will create a dream. Whereas dreams themselves are natural events 
which happen to us. You will create a dream for others to dream and 
to be dreamed by. 
