214 CREATIVITY 
A Whack on the Side 
of the Head 
(How to Unlock Your Mind 
for Innovation) 
Roger von Oech, Ph.D. 
1983; 141 pp. 
$10.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House, Inc. 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
800/638-6460 
What | liked most about this book was that it was 
peppered with anecdotes, puzzles, fascinating 
facts, silliness, and science. 
Its premise: “Here’s 
this mental lock; now here’s how to unlock it.” Its 
method: a whole raft of pinpricks, seductions, 
strategies, and whacks ranging from the minute to 
the mystic to engage your mind and set it on any 
course than its usual one. It’s aimed at men in 
suits and ties, judging from the illustrations, but 
what it teaches — to think something different than 
you would ordinarily and take advantage of that 
new thinking — is a boon to anyone. 
—Sarah Satterlee 
Exercise: Are you creative? (Check the appropriate box.) 
| | 
YES 
Playful Perception 
(Choosing How to Experience 
Your World) 
Herbert L. Leff, Ph.D. 
1984; 161 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Waterfront Books 
98 Brookes Avenue 
Burlington, VT 05401 
800/456-7500 
Here are the tools you'll need to see in new ways 
— the essence of creative thinking. No more dead 
time waiting for water to boil, the bus to come, 
Godot to show up. Instead, make your mind a 
kaleidoscope, jar loose your mental constructs, 
and shift around the patterns of reality. Perceptual 
play changes routine into adventure. 
The photographs poked me visually and the exer- 
cises (ugly word) pushed my mind down an infinite 
progression of new possibilities — into channels, 
SELECT THE ONE THAT IS DIFFERENT 
FROM ALL THE OTHERS. 
© 
e) 
Each selection is correct, depending 
on your point of view. 
4 
An aerospace manager told me that several years ago 
he took up the hobby of designing and constructing 
backyard waterfalls for himself and his friends. “I don't 
know why,” he said, “but designing waterfalls has made 
me a better manager. It has brought me a lot closer in 
touch with ideas such as ‘flow,’ ‘movement,’ and 
tunnels, streams, corridors 
I'd never explored before. 
The old mind-set will never 
be the same. 
—Corinne Cullen Hawkins 
Sd 
So often in our culture we 
seem to think of arguing as if 
it were a kind of war. What if 
we shifted to viewing dis- 
agreements as if they were 
celebrations or parties of 
idea? What if we thought of 
ourselves.as.living ina 
shared pool of thoughts 
rather than as “possessing” or 
_ 
originating ideas? What if we 
also thought of error or being 
wrong as simply an opportu- 
nity to learn rather than as a 
weakness to be attacked? 
And, most of all, what if we 
could think of our own goals 
or proposals as invitations to 
explore for even better ideas? 
Regard whatever you're doing, 
thinking, or feeling as if it were your 
hobby. Can you do that — imagine 
that washing dishes is really a 
hobby, something you look forward 
to, take pride in, savor, know the fine 
points of, do for recreation, 
and so on? 
& 
Os 
CHESS) 
| 
‘vibration’ which are difficult to put into words, but which 
are important in the communication between two 
people.” 
4 
| think one of life’s great thrills is falling out of love with a 
previously cherished idea. When that happens, you're 
free to look for new ones. 
5 
Soft thinking is metaphorical, approximate, diffuse, 
humorous, playful, and capable of dealing with contra- 
diction. Hard thinking tends to be more logical, precise, 
exact, specific, and consistent. 
Soft thinker: They both 
have a place to put 
fish; they both have 
tails. Hard thinker: 
Members of two 
different sets. 
The Act of Creation 
Arthur Koestler: 1964; 750 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Macmillan Publishing Company 
Get this book back in print!!! 
Koestler takes his notion of bisociation to be the root of humor, discovery, 
and art. | take it to be one of the roots of learning, subject to applications of 
method (on yourself or whomever). 
Koestler is a scientist of some reputation by now. He’s made contributions 
beyond the work of others that he’s generalized from. This is the book — 
on how discovery of every kind really occurs in the mind — that gave him 
the reputation. His most lasting contribution. 
—Stewart Brand 
e 
When two independent matrices of perception or reasoning interact with each other 
the result (as | hope to show) is either a collision ending in laughter, or their fusion 
in a new intellectual synthesis, or their confrontation in an aesthetic experience. 
The bisociative patterns found in any domain of creative activity are tri-valent: that 
is to say, the same pair of matrices can produce comic, tragic, or intellectually 
challenging effects. 
¢ 
In the popular imagination men of science appear as ice-cold logicians, electronic 
brains mounted on dry sticks. But if one were shown an anthology of typical ex- 
tracts from their letters and autobiographies with no names mentioned, and then 
asked to guess their profession, the likeliest answer would be: a bunch of poets or 
musicians of a rather romantically naive kind. 
¢ 
| have coined the term “bisociation” in order to make a distinction between the 
routine skills of thinking on a single “plane,” as it were, and the creative act, which, 
as | shall try to show, always operates on more than one plane. The former may be 
called single-minded, the latter a double-minded, transitory state of unstable 
equilibrium where the balance of both emotion and thought is disturbed. 
