ALTERNATIVE NEWS SOURCES 
Real News Sources 
by Kevin Kelly 
Where did all the news in this book come from? From 
the recommendations of a informal circle of friends who 
are, more or less, information junkies. I was curious 
what sources these intelligence agents found to keep 
them nourished with real news — dispatches that report 
on a new pattern of things, rather than on new variations 
of old news. I polled them as we gathered: 
I read anything and everything. For business purposes I 
read Locus (see p. 181) - the Business Week of the 
science fiction world. My favorite ‘zine is Science Fic- 
tion Guide (see p. 181), published by Charles Platt — 
juicy stuff. The place I get my most news from is High 
Technology, which I love. I read Science, too, and Fact 
Sheet Five (see p. 40), a really bizzare under-ground 
‘zine. I pay attention to Inquiry (see p. 55) for a radical 
Islamic view of the world, and I subscribe to Soviet Life, 
which you can’t beat. Now that I think about it I get an 
awful lot of my quirky news from friends who send me 
clippings. And recently I started my own BBS called 
Cheap Truth. People all over the country call in on it, 
and so I collect weird news that way. 
— Brice Sterling 
Cyberpunk author 
For straight news I read the English paper Manchester 
Guardian (see p. 55). My favorite mag is the fash- 
ionable Vanity Fair, and the English life style magazine 
Face. 
don’t read much science news other than New 
Scientist. I get most of that kind of science stuff from 
clippings that Bruce Sterling sends me. 
— William Gibson 
Author of Neuromancer 
I start each day reading the Washington Post - every 
article but sports. Trade journals and specialized news- 
letters come in every day, most dealing with communi- 
cations. Just started getting Automatic ID News (journal 
of the bar-code industry) and EMI and Compatibility 
(control of electromagnetic interference). Also sub- 
scribe to several radio hobby publications (especially 
recommend the WSYI Report, Monitoring Times & 
Review of International Broadcasting. WTOP-AM is 
the local news-radio station. When that’s not on, usually 
my scanner is, listening to DC police and federal land 
mobile channels (one of the special benefits of living 
downtown). At night, always listen to BBC World 
Service, Radio France International (esp. for African 
Whole Earth 
Review 
Kevin Kelly, Editor 
$20/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Whole Earth Review 
P.O. Box 38 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
415/332-1716 
All the wonderful things we don’t have room to 
explore here we print in our magazine of unortho- 
dox cultural and technical news. See page 226 for 
more explanation. 
—Kevin Kelly 
news) and Radio Netherlands (esp. for media news). 
Usually try to hear All Things Considered and MacNeil- 
Lehrer, occasionally one of the commercial TV net 
newses. But I find I get the best news from friends with 
common interests, most of them journalists or audio- 
visual production techies. I still haven’t learned to 
control this flood for maximum utility. Often my news- 
sources tend to run my time. 
Once a month I spend a weekend at the Library of 
Congress devouring reports from the Joint Publications 
Research Service (JPRS) and the Foreign Broadcast 
Information Service (FBIS). These are the CIA’s two 
public translation services covering foreign newsmedia. 
The latter are primarily short-shelf-life news monitored 
from foreign broadcasts and daily newspapers. The 
JPRS reports tend to deal with longer-term develop- 
ments, trends, think-pieces, science news. These two 
services are gold-mines, unequaled by anything else 
I’ve ever seen. Issued monthly, no mortal can afford a 
subscription, but most places that archive FBIS/JPRS do 
subscribe. 
— Robert Horvitz 
Communication artist 
Every evening I run with All Things Considered on my 
Walkman headphones. Between daily perusal of the 
New York Times and USA Today, I get the long and 
short of it. Both of them have many (10% or more) 
health related items. For more medical related news I 
get The Sieve from Rodale, which monitors medical 
literature, and every so often I go to the library and read 
back issues of the main medical journals. 
— Tom Ferguson 
M.D. and co-publisher of Medical Self-Care 
I watch no TV. No radio either. I read Science and 
Utne Reader 
Eric Utne, Editor 
$18/year 
(6 issues) from: 
Utne Reader 
Subscriber Services 
P. O. Box 1974 
Marion, OH 43306-1974 
612/929-2670 
Handy idea, handy result. A magazine offering 
“The best of the alternative press” — a Reader’s 
Digest for New Age types. The press represented 
varies in its alternativity from Esquire, Savvy, and 
Harper’s, to In These Times, ChurchWorld, The 
Progressive (some good stuff, makes me want to 
check out the source publication), The Guardian, 
and Dissent. (Those and more in one issue.) 
There’re full articles, edited articles, glosses, and 
magazine reviews by subject area (a bunch on 
renewable energy, a bunch on American Indians). 
By and large any issue is bound to stop scanners 
and force them to read two to six times — that’s 
better than Esquire or New Age Journal are 
managing these days. If you’re cutting back on 
your magazine exposure, probably a healthy prac- 
tice in the excessively pop culture going on, the 
Utne Reader might be a good tool for tapering off. 
— Stewart Brand 
Science News. Lots of newsletters and xeroxed papers. 
— Eric Drexler 
Nanotechnology visionary 
I use the telephone. Get lots of trade journals. My favor- 
ite is a Japanese electronics trade magazine — a real 
peek at the future. I read the Wall Street Journal, New 
York Times, and almost all of Whole Earth Review. And 
I catch All Things Considered when I can. I also vide- 
otape Pee-Wee Herman’s show on Saturday moming to 
keep up on the pop culture. 
— Mike Liebhold 
Special projects director at Apple Computer 
Whole Earth Review (I even read CoEvolution) 
The Spectator 
New Scientist 
Vogue 
Louie M Vogue (Italian men’s Vogue) 
Wall Street Journal 
International Herald Tribune 
Music Technology (see page 125) 
World service of the BBC 
National Public Radio 
West Africa Today 
Hi-Fi Sound 
Aviation Week & Space Technology 
— Brian Eno 
Musician and visual artist 
Pacific News Service 
Sandy Close, Editor; $100/year (52 packets) from: 
Pacific News Service, 604 Mission Street, San 
Francisco, CA 94105; 415/986-5690 
This international news service reported about El 
Salvador four or five months before any American 
news people. Their reporters were the only Ameri- 
cans to ask Iranian students why they were rioting. 
They consistently asked the brutal questions about 
topical issues like the Miami riots, housing short- 
ages, low quality in public schools, effects of 
microelectronics on the workplace — issues that 
normal news services like AP/UPI cover in People 
magazine style or not at all. 
When | was a typesetter at a community newspa- 
per, we used to fight over who got to do the PNS 
stories. As a freelance science writer | was treated 
by PNS with an editorial grace I’ve experienced 
nowhere else (low pay, though; they’re struggling). 
Now they're making their weekly reports (about six 
stories a week) available to individuals at $100 a 
year. Expensive but worth it, especially if your local 
paper doesn't carry them. I'm planning on finding 
some friends to share a subscription with. 
— 
Art Kleiner 
o 
WORLD'S SIXTH DIVIDED COUNTRY? — BEHIND- 
THE-SCENES TALK OF AFGHAN PARTITION, By 
Batuk Vora. Smoke from inside the diplomatic volcano 
indicate that one of the options being considered for 
Afghanistan's future is partition. While some argue that 
this would enable the anti-Soviet rebels to set up a 
provisional government and eventually secure control 
over the entire country, they are underestimating the 
ability of the Kabul government to survive. 
93 
