The Next Hurrah 
(The Communications Revolution 
in American Politics) 
Richard Armstrong 
1988; 300 pp. 
$18.95 
($20.45 postpaid) from: 
William Morrow & Co. 
WILMOR 
39 Plymouth Street 
P.O. Box 1219 
Fairfield, N.J. 07007 
‘ The Communications 
Revolution 18 
American Politics 
RICHARD ARMSTRONG 
There’s an art to writing junk-mail seductive 
enough to get a wary reader to pull out his or her 
checkbook. Richard Armstrong’s mastery of that 
mode is put to much better use in this engrossing, 
wide-ranging look at political applications of new 
information technologies. 
He starts with what he knows best — direct mail 
fund-raising — then shows how this ties in with 
voter databases, campaign software, telephone 
banks, opinion polling, electronic news-releases, 
broadcast production, cable TV, satellite relays, 
and computer communications. Neither a utopian 
nor a cynic, at one point he asserts that the new 
political technology (particularly computers) is 
“amateurizing” campaigns — giving newcomers 
capabilities that only entrenched “party machines” 
had in the past. But the bulk of the book suggests 
otherwise, as telemarketing specialists increasingly 
replace grassroots volunteers, manipulating candi- 
dates’ positions to fit statistical models and “geode- 
mographic” game-plans. 
Recognizing how rapidly campaign technology is 
evolving, and how unexpected the synergies have 
been, Armstrong doesn't try to peer very far into 
Campaigns & 
Elections 
James M. Dwinell, Editor 
$48/year (7 issues) 
or $4.50 per issue from: 
C&E, Inc. Suite 1200-E 
1331 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20004r 
800/237-7842 
A slick trade journal for professional campaigners, 
political consultants, and those running (or inter- 
ested in running) for public office. 
Unabashedly committed to candidate-packaging 
and -marketing, most of the articles are how-to 
pieces and interviews with successful practitioners. 
The ads are intriguing, and each issue’s “directory 
of resources” (paid listings for PR firms, mailing-list 
brokers, fundraisers, computer specialists, etc.) 
seems like an essential tool. My favorite column is 
“Politics Across America”: local campaign stories 
rarely picked up by reporters outside the immedi- 
ate locale. 
C&E has an odd pricing policy: subscriptions cost 
50% more than the per-issue cover price. Since 
184 ELECTRONIC DEMOCRACY 
the future. He doesn’t really have to: just pulling 
together what's already happening produces some 
future shock. But he does predict a splintering of 
the two-party system soon, as well as growing 
difficulty in balancing personal privacy with political 
involvement. 
While not meant as a how-to manual, there are 
enough tips, models and pointers to set you think- 
ing how you can adapt some of these already- 
available techniques to the elections and issues 
you care about. 
—Robert Horvitz 
¢ 
It's been estimated there are approximately five hundred 
thousand electoral offices in the United States, with 
roughly 750,000 candidates vying for them. These candi- 
dates spend about 1.25 billion dollars more in donated 
services in their effort to get elected. Congressional, 
gubernatorial, and senatorial campaigns make up only a 
tiny fraction of this market. The bulk of it is comprised of 
local politicians who spend five, ten, or fifteen thousand 
dollars to get elected to city councils, state legislatures, 
school boards, and county commissions. In the past, 
only big campaigns could afford to use computers. In the 
future, 90 percent of the use of computers in politics will 
be in the smaller campaigns. 
4 
Nowadays, candidates in effect “cover” their own cam- 
paign. Staffers are hired to follow the candidate around 
with cassette recorders and minicams, taping anything 
that resembles news. These tapes are then delivered to 
radio stations, television stations, and cable systems by 
telephone, by satellite, or by hand, where they will find 
their way on to the air — often without much editorial 
comment. In the print media it’s very rare for a press 
release to be published intact. But with radio and televi- 
sion actualities, it happens all the time. And, for the most 
part, the press regards it as a service! 
Washington, DC, is about the only place you can 
find this publication on newsstands, they appear to 
be discriminating against the rest of the country — 
at least in cost. The content, on the other hand, is 
geographically diverse. They're particularly atten- 
tive to races at the state and district levels. 
—Robert Horvitz 
Sd 
... The race remained close until the campaign’s final 
week, when Moore’s opponent, three-term Jackson 
Mayor Dale Danks, aired a controversial TV spot 
showing Moore in 1975 with long hair. . 
. with a voice- 
over: “Who has the experience to be attorney general? 
Well, when Mike Moore was a law student, Dale Danks 
was a prosecutor winning 90 percent of his cases. 
. 
. .” 
A second spot depicted Danks in college with his closely 
cropped wethead, circa 1963, while the voice-over 
intoned “. . 
. Dale Danks worked for the city sanitation 
department while earning his degree from the Jackson 
School of Law.” 
Danks found himself on the defensive for what many 
voters described as “a low blow.” He tried to explain the 
ads as an insight into his opponent's background and 
character. .. 
. Most voters did not agree. As he 
continued campaigning, Moore sensed the tide turning in 
his favor. “Everybody’s mad about that hair thing. . 
. 
. 
Arkansas 
Ist District 
1980 Population 573,551 
~ 
SS 
Bill Alexander 
aS 
Ose. 
SS 
De 
at 
wm 
alepo 
; 
SaGe
Card in the House stack. 
Congress Stack 
$159.95 from Highlighted Data, Inc., P.O. Box 17229, 
Washington, DC 20041; 703/241-1180. 
This electronic database is ideal for anyone who 
wants or needs to “work” Congress. In fact, lobby- 
ists and public-interest groups will soon probably 
wonder how they ever got along without it. 
Built on the versatile HyperCard program, it pulls 
together information about every member of Con- 
gress, their biographies, home districts (including 
maps and zip-codes), office staff (names, roles, 
and phone numbers), and committee assignments. 
This information is all available on paper, but not 
from one source, not so conveniently cross-linked 
and customizable, and not in a form where it can 
be so quickly searched and output to other applica- 
tions. You can, for example, take a zip code and 
quickly find what Congressional District it’s in and 
who represents it. Or take a subcommittee and 
compile a list of all the zip codes of the members’ 
constituents. 
Hardware requirements for Congress Stack are a 
Macintosh Plus, SE or II, with a hard disk and 
800K drive. The current edition is about 10 mega- 
bytes: 17,000+ “cards” organized into 19 “stacks.” 
It’s now being shipped as a set of ten 3.5" floppies 
with user-removable copy protection (to prevent 
accidental data loss while learning how to use and 
customize it). Updated editions of Congress Stack 
will be released every two years. Between editions, 
you can add and delete notes and graphics on 
your copy as you wish. The one obvious problem 
is transferring your additions and customizations to 
a new edition — but that’s a problem with any 
timebound reference. 
—Robert Horvitz 
People walked up to me and said, ‘Boy, | was for Danks, 
but when he came out with that hair ad | decided to be 
for you.” 
In fact, the entire experience-versus-inexperience 
approach taken by Danks helped Moore ride the tide of 
youthful reformers, such as gubernatorial candidate Ray 
Mabus, who were sweeping the state. By Election Day, 
Moore's come-from-behind victory was complete. He 
won by more than 100,000 votes, and defeated Danks in 
the Mayor's home base of Hinds, Madison, and Rankin 
counties. 
e
ath
a
ee 
i 
ne 
Se 
a
Se
ee 
e
