The Skeptical Consumer’s 
Guide to Used Computers 
Ed Kahn and Charles Seiter 
1985; 306 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Ten Speed Press 
P. O. Box 7123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
415/845-8414 
Before You Buy 
a Used Computer 
Dona Z. Meilach 
1985; 150 pp. 
$1.98 
($4.98 postpaid) from: 
Crown Publishers 
225 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10003 
800/526-4264 
Computers don’t wear out or break easily. They 
obsolesce. Thus, though it may not run the latest 
techno-status software, a used 1983 machine will 
still process your words fine and could be the best 
way to break into computering. After all, prices 
drop fast, and someone else has already gone 
through the grief of setting the thing up. Anyone 
buying a used computer will have three basic 
questions: What should | get? What should | 
avoid? Where do | look? 
To answer the first two questions, read The Skep- 
tical Consumer’s Guide. It walks you down the 
list of computer companies as if they were dealers 
on auto row and interprets each one’s carnival 
spiel for you. A beginner could avoid some serious 
errors here — the CompuPro or the Workslate, for 
instance (for different reasons). This is that rare 
beast, a charming computer book, but it unfortu- 
nately skimps on the section on where to look after 
you narrow your list. 
Hence you need Before You Buy a Used Com- 
puter. Skip to page 55 (“Finding Sources for Used 
Merchandise”) and read to the back. It’s all search 
Cost 
Lc SD) S) 
SoPTWARE 
Pek 
9 
A computer “bargain” may not be such a bargain if you have to buy a 
printer, disk drive, and software as well. The best overall bet is to buy 
a computer that has all the features you need in the first place. 
—The Skeptical Consumer's Guide to Used Computers 
USED COMPUTERS 
Used magazines for sale at a swap meet may 
give you an idea of the price range on an 
older item. 
—Before You Buy a Used Computer 
[Below]Computer swap meets are growing in 
popularity and sophistication. Merchandise will 
be varied and include anything from back copies 
of magazines to complete computer systems. 
strategies. The chapter on auctions alone could 
save you hundreds of dollars. This is obviously a 
much more hurried, less painstaking book. 
Sorry, | must recommend both. But once you buy 
your used computer, you can always sell these 
books to someone else, right? As a used-computer 
owner, you'll need Henry Beechhold’s Plain Eng- 
lish Repair and Maintenance Guide for Home 
Computers (page 171), since you won't be getting 
a warranty. 
—Art Kleiner 
If you think that $1.98 price for Before You Buy a 
Used Computer is a misprint, rest assured that it’s 
not — the book has been remaindered but is still 
available from the publisher. It’s a fantastic bar- 
gain, even for a book that’s somewhat old by com- 
puter industry standards. Computers may change, 
but basic methods of buying and selling them 
remain. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
¢ 
The biggest fear of the first-time computer buyer is really 
the one most easily set aside. The usual service prob- 
lems don’t concern chips — which are easily replaced, 
not repaired — but mechanical parts (the physical cabi- 
net and housing for the computer, disk drives, and pe- 
ripherals). It is much like the situation with older cars. If 
you set out to restore a rare automobile, you will find that 
it is not the engine that will give you grief so much as the 
accessories like the cigarette lighter knob. 
—The Skeptical Consumer's Guide to Used Computers 
¢ 
Don't think that every swap meet has only good buys. 
Many dealers discover they can sell new merchandise at 
the regular price; sometimes over regular price because 
people are conditioned to think that swap meets spell 
bargains. 
¢ 
At a computer auction, the items may not be plugged in 
and working, especially if this poses electrical connec- 
tion and potential power problems. Neither should you 
expect people on the auctioneer’s staff to know about or 
offer advice on the merchandise. If you persist, and bring 
along your own electric cord, you can usually get permis- 
sion to plug in an item and try it. (Take along compatible 
software, too.) If it performs as it is supposed to, you are 
within safe boundaries. On large equipment, some 
provisions may be available for testing. 
—Before You Buy a Used Computer 
—Belore You Buy a Used Computer 
173 
We heard that IBM is terminating 
a few members of their family. 
We're ready to move in on their 
ATIXT territory! 
Godfather’s Used Computer 
Syndicate 
Catalog free from Godfather’s Used Computer 
Syndicate, P.O. Box 3037, 851 West State Road 436, 
Suite 1015, Altamonte Springs, FL 32714; 
305/774-1111. 
Their name sounds like they should be selling 
pizzas, but really this outfit sells used IBM PCs and 
peripherals at (naturally) a price you can’t refuse. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
