Marketing Without 
Advertising 
Michael Phillips and 
Salli Raspberry 
1986, 1987; 200 pp. 
$14 
($16.50 postpaid) from: 
Nolo Press 
950 Parker Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
415/549-1976 
or Whole Earth Access 
The first two chapters of this startling book argue 
convincingly, and with documented proof, that 
almost all advertising is totally ineffective and an 
utter waste of money; and that most business 
owners, including top executives of large corpora- 
tions, have been successfully duped into believing 
advertising is both necessary and productive in 
spite of obvious evidence to the contrary. The 
evidence presented — the at-times hilarious ads 
themselves, the statistics, the quotes from adver- 
tising executives, the Wall Street Journal articles 
— will actually make you laugh, or if you’re a buyer 
Guerrilla Marketing 
Jay Conrad Levinson 
1981, 1984; 226 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Mail Order Dept. 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, MA 01803 
800/225-3362 
or Whole Earth Access 
It’s a rare business that will survive without suc- 
cessful, ongoing marketing. Marketing means 
promotion, and Guerrilla Marketing offers up a 
couple of dozen creative, inexpensive promotion 
ideas. I’m still not sure what “guerrilla” means 
except that it is a good example of what's in the 
book: the title is a marketing device itself — it 
catches your eye, makes you a little curious about 
‘it, costs nothing. The bulk of the book deals with 
advertising, which | view with great skepticism 
since reading Marketing Without Advertising 
(above). But | personally got several good ideas 
from the book, a couple of very good ideas, and 
one business-saving idea. What more could you 
want for nine dollars? 
—Bernard Kamoroff 
5 
George then distributed his circulars by several meth- 
ods: He mailed 1000; he placed 1000 on auto wind- 
shields (he had a high school student do some of this for 
him); he distributed 1000 more at a home show in his 
area; he handed out 1000 more at a local flea market; 
and he held on to 1000 to give to satisfied customers to 
pass on to their friends and neighbors. Being bright as a 
penny when it comes to saving money, the enterprising 
George also asked each of his customers where they 
had heard of him. When they said, “l saw your flier,” 
George asked where they got it. This way, he learned 
which of the five methods of circular distribution were 
most effective. 
PLEASE ACCEPT OUR SYMBOL FOR 
A GOOD RELATIONSHIP 
— JAPANESE COIN, GO EN (Five Yen) — 
GO-E-N &PSFIVE YEN 
GO-E-N #9 &R Good Relationship 
GO-E-N CAN BE EXCHANGED FOR ONE ORDER 
OF SAKE NEXT TIME YOU DINE WITH US 
4 
THANK YOU VERY MUCH 
PLEASE COME AGAIN 
GOMEN - TEI 
5338 Geary Blvd. San Francisco, CA 94121 
(415) 387-3400 
With a little creative thinking, every small businessperson can use 
discounts, small gifts or extra services to make good customers feel 
appreciated. We know a nice little Japanese restaurant in San 
Francisco that gives customers a Japanese coin good for a free order 
of sake at the next visit. 
of advertising, maybe make you cry. Next time you 
see or hear an advertisement, think about it a 
minute. Would you buy what they’re trying to sell 
you? When was the last time an ad convinced you 
to buy anything? If you run a business, how suc- 
cessful have your ads been? Read the beginning 
of this book, and | guarantee you’Il have an entirely 
new perspective on advertising. 
The rest of the book, the bulk of the writing, ex- 
plains clearly and in detail how you can promote 
Positioning 
(The Battle for Your Mind) 
Jack Trout and Al Reis 
1981, 1986; 213 pp. 
$4.95 
($6.45 postpaid) from: 
Warner Books 
P.O. Box 690 
New York, NY 10019 
212/484-2900 
or Whole Earth Access 
Marketing Warfare 
Jack Trout and Al Reis 
1986; 215 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
P.O. Box 999 Bergenfield, NJ 07621; 201/387-0600 
or Whole Earth Access 
Howls from the wolves of the marketplace. 
“Positioning” caught on about 13 years ago as a 
marketing trend. To make your (probably undistin- 
guished) product seem more distinct and unique, 
— 
you aim at your competitor, not at your public. The 
classic positioning campaign was from Avis: “We're 
only #2, we try harder.” But that campaign had 
substance — it forced Avis to shape up its service. 
More often, positioning is an image game in which 
the business competitors seek the chinks in each 
other’s armor, while the public is the turf they 
trample on. In mainstream advertising, the posi- 
tioning trend seems about to decline, but not be- 
fore it influenced the methods of all types of busi- 
ness — and the way business is seen. You could 
accuse Smith and Hawken of positioning, for in- 
stance; by importing a small line of garden tools, 
they created an image “position” as the highest- 
quality importers of their kind. By contrast, you 
could say that the Whole Earth Catalog has ad- 
MARKETING 189 
your business without advertising, primarily by 
encouraging personal recommendations. The 
ideas are useful and well presented, of a value to 
any business. But it’s those first two chapters. .. 
. 
—Bernard Kamoroff 
¢ 
There are four main reasons why advertising is inappro- 
priate for a small business: 
® First, advertising is simply not cost-effective. Claims 
that it produces even marginal financial returns are 
usually fallacious. 
© Second, even when advertising produces enough 
paying customers to justify itself, customers lured by the 
ads tend to be disloyal. In other words, advertising does 
not provide a solid customer base for future business. 
® Third, dependence on advertising to get new custom- 
ers is often actually debilitating to a business, making it 
more vulnerable to changes in volatile consumer taste 
and thus more likely to fail. 
® Fourth, because a significant percentage of advertis- 
ing is deceptive, advertisers are increasingly seen by the 
public (both consciously and unconsciously) as dishon- 
est and manipulative. Businesses that advertise heavily 
are often suspected of offering poor quality goods 
and services. 
vanced despite a lack of positioning — the cata- 
logs have consistently refused to hone in on one 
particular audience or point of view (to their credit, 
in my opinion). 
Marketing Warfare, by the same authors, is partly 
a disguised rehash of Positioning and partly an 
extended analogy between marketing and war. 
—Art Kleiner 
¢ 
The classic mistake made by the leader is the illusion 
that the power of the product is derived from the power 
of the organization. 
It’s just the reverse. The power of the organization is 
derived from the power of the product. The position that 
the product owns is in the prospect's mind. 
Coca-Cola has power. The Coca-Cola Company is 
merely a reflection of that power. 
eens 
—Positioning 
Principles of guerrilla 
marketing warfare. 
. Find a segment of the market 
small enough to defend. 
. No matter how successful you become, 
never act like the leader. 
. Be prepared to bugout at a 
moment's notice. 
—Marketing Warfare 
