Manchester Guardian Weekly 
$58/year 
AAA 
(52 issues) from: 
Manchester Guardian 
Weekly 
20 East 53rd Street 
New York, NY 10022 
212/688-1330 
The only good 
English-language newsweekly is the Manchester 
Guardian Weekly. It is 32 pages/week with heavy 
emphasis on international news. The articles are 
culled from the previous week’s editions of The 
Guardian, Le Monde, and The Washington Post, 
so that France and the U.S. are well covered. As a 
British paper, The Guardian pays special attention 
to nations in the Commonwealth and in the Com- 
mon Market. 
—Avery Hart 
America bajjles Europe ... 
.»- Europe baffles America 
Sd 
Armenian demonstrators in their. hundreds of thousands 
are the most spectacular reminder so far that the Soviet 
Union is also the Russian Empire, and that the USSR 71 
years after Lenin’s revolution is no more a monolith that 
it was under the Tsars. Kazakhs, Crimean Tatars, and 
Balts have already shown that many decades of Com- 
munist centralism have failed to extinguish nationalism in 
the outlying regions, any more than they have in the sat- 
ellite states of eastern Europe... . 
The vast civic protest of the last fortnight dramatically re- 
vives an issue dormant for 65 years. A significant minor- 
ity (one in three) clearly does not wish to remain under 
Azerbaijan, populated mostly by Shiite Moslems, even 
though all are officially equal under Communism. 
Inquiry 
Mohamed Iqbal Asaria, 
Editor 
$30/year 
(12 issues) from: 
Critique 
P.O. Box 11368 
Santa Rosa, CA 95406 
If | had to restrict my 
recommendations to 
only one Muslim magazine, it would un- 
doubtedly be Inquiry. Published in Lon- 
don, this “Magazine of Events and 
Ideas” is of unfailing interest month after 
month in its coverage of the intellectual 
ferment in the Islamic world. This is the 
place to find deep critiques of Moderni- 
Zation, High Technology, and Multina- 
tionals along with self-critiques of Muslim 
intellectuals’ idealism. Inquiry also pro- 
vides news of Islamic countries and re- 
views of books and cultural events. 
—Jay Kinney 
¢ 
Following the Makkah violence, the Saudis 
quickly managed to score propaganda 
points. The relative isolation of Makkah (no 
Pravda 
$630/year 
(365 issues) 
or $99.50/year 
(52 issues) from: 
Context Corp. 
2233 University Avenue 
Suite 225 
St. Paul, MN 55114 
612/646-2548 
Pravda, the official newspaper of the Communist 
Party of the Soviet Union, used to be the less-than- 
informative official version of Soviet reality. Now, in 
the context of the radical reform movement in the 
USSR, Pravda, like most of the rest of the Soviet 
media, is hot stuff — a place where you can follow 
the latest political battles between reformers and 
conservatives, read about the latest exposé of 
corruption among officials, and laugh at satirical 
political cartoons lampooning bureaucrats. The 
regular features remain as well: TV and radio 
program listings (Pushkin’s poetry is prime time 
fare), highly opinionated and critical letters to the 
editor (usually criticizing the newspaper for either 
going too far or not going far enough!) and texts of 
important speeches and documents. If the English- 
language daily dose is more than you need, the 
weekly summary of the most topical items might be 
your best bet. 
—Richard Schauffler 
¢ 
G. Gulyuk, head of the Vologdamelioratsia Association, 
repeatedly assured the residents that he would meet 
their basic demands with regard to their living conditions. 
But he didn’t have time to accomplish this — he was 
promoted. And this occurred after the province people's 
control committee brought him to account for figure 
padding and unsatisfactory construction work on social, 
cultural, and other public facilities. | attempted to find out 
non-Muslim Western journalist is allowed in) and the fact 
that the riot took place during the peak of the pilgrimage 
helped Saudis to doctor the facts. They released their 
own casualty figures and doctored a documentary, which 
was crudely one-sided. 
In Malaysia, massive investment has gone into heavy industry. The 
returns from these are questionable. 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
55 
from him why he hadn't kept the promise he made to the 
residents of Priluki. 
“According to the calculations, there should be enough 
heat,” G. Gulyuk answered. “I don’t see any particular 
problems.” 
Meanwhile, houses continue to be built in the settlement, 
and the new leadership of the association, in the person 
of P. Sery, isn’t racking its brains over where to get heat 
from them. 
—from an article titled “We're Freezing’ 
Third World Week 
Peter B. Martin, Editor 
$49.50/year 
(52 issues) from: 
South-North News Service 
4 West Wheelock Street 
Hanover, NH 03755 
603/643-5071 
Third World Week has a 
two-part function — diffusion 
* 
of grass-roots reporting from seldom-represented 
parts of the planet and an active sponsorship and 
training of local newspeople to perpetuate same. 
Available on-line and in hard copy. 
TWW often shocks both left and right — a pro-lran, 
pro-Contra report in one issue! Good reading. 
—John Benecki 
¢ 
KATHMANDU, Nepal — Here in the capital of Nepal, 
Govinda Ghimere, a 21-year-old invalid with a useless 
right hand, earns his living with the help of an old 
bathroom scale. 
Every morning, Ghimere sits with other bathroom-scale 
proprietors on the ground along a footpath inside the 
Sundhara bazaar in downtown Kathmandu. Sundhara is 
a busy flea market with rows of vendors and four- 
wheeled carts where delicacies are cooked before your 
very eyes. 
A French tourist with a large carton steps on Dari’s 
scale, writes down the weight and gets off. He puts down 
the carton, weighs himself again. He hands the boy 50- 
paisa coin, and walks off toward the nearby post office. 
The tourist now has a good idea of how much the carton 
he is mailing to France will weigh. 
A scale imported from nearby India costs about 550 
Nepalese rupees (U.S. $24). Used scales are available 
at half that price. 
A scale keeper can earn about 20-25 rupees a day. That 
comes to U.S. $27-34 a month, or an average annual 
income of about U.S. $366 — much higher than that of 
most Nepalese, which averages only about U.S. $140. 
