The Dance Workshop 
Robert Cohan 
1986; 192 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.05 postpaid) from: 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
201/767-5937 
or Whole Earth Access 
I love to dance. Since the age of five I’ve been 
moving to music aided and encouraged by my 
mother, who shares my love. | was hesitant to 
review a book on dance because there is no music 
and you are sitting on your butt instead of moving 
about. But | remembered spending hours staring at 
my mother’s book on ballet — copying over and 
over the different positions the stick figures were 
1st position turned out 
2nd position Turned out 
Contact Quarterly 
Nancy Stark Smith 
and Lisa Nelson, Editors 
$17/year (4 issues) from: 
Contact Quarterly 
P.O. Box 603 
Northampton, MA 01061 
413/586-1181 
Subtitled “a vehicle for moving ideas,” 
this is a 
magazine by and for dancers interested in improvi- 
sation, movement games, the space between 
athletics and art. Its patron saints are Simone Forti 
and Steve Paxton. Has a nice, casual spirit, full of 
shared energy, serious fun and eccentricity. 
—Robert Horvitz 
doing. The Dance Workshop can be used in the 
same way. It starts off with warm-up exercises 
(very important if you want to spare yourself lots of 
pain) and progresses to positions, steps, and 
movements basic to all forms of dance. Instead of 
stick figures there are graceful drawings of people 
doing the movements step by step. 
— Susan Erkel Ryan 
4 
The Basic Positions of Dance 
In order to exercise well, it is important to know exactly 
where your body is in a given space. The body positions 
shown here are basic to dance all over the world, 
because they are basic to our body shape and function. 
It is important to learn them well since it is easier to 
execute any movement with care and precision if you 
have a formal position to start from and return to. The 
positions known as 1st and 2nd can be done either with 
the legs turned out or with the legs parallel. 
3rd position 
4th position 
5th position 
Dancing 
Ellen Jacob 
1981; 350 pp. 
$11.95 
($13.20 postpaid) from: 
Variety Arts 
305 Riverside Drive 
Suite 4A 
New York, NY 10025 
212/316-0399 
or Whole Earth Access 
Dance may not be something to learn from a book, 
but this book serves as a great introduction to 
those of us who are beguiled and yet intimidated 
by the idea of dancing. Addressed both to the 
hesitant adult beginner who prances around the 
house when nobody’s looking and to the young 
adult considering a career in dance, Dancing cuts 
through a lot of the mystique and mistaken 
glamour with practical, specific advice: choosing a 
style of dance, finding a good teacher and getting 
the most out of a class, preventing injury, and even 
viewing dance. 
A real aid for parents who want to get their 
youngsters started off on the right foot — both 
daughters and sons (plenty of photos of men 
dancing, though most of the pronouns are “she’). 
Competent directory of dance resources around 
the country, with special emphasis on New York. 
Dancing does what no elegant dance picture book 
can do: makes it plain that you can dance even if 
you don't look like a Capezio ad. 
— Nancy E. Dunn 
¢ 
A good class has a thorough warm-up with adequate 
time to establish alignment and placement. The teacher 
should be constructive and inspiring, and should push 
you beyond your limits physically by increasing your 
range of movement and strength; and mentally, by 
breaking through barriers of fear. Avoid an inhibiting 
atmosphere in which too much discipline prevents you 
from making mistakes and learning from them; a 
frustrated, negative teacher; overcrowded classes, and 
rushed classes, especially the warm-up. 
