200 INFORMATION TAKEOVER 
In the Age of the 
Smart Machine 
(The Future of Work and Power) 
Shoshanna Zuboff 
1988; 468 pp. 
$19.45 
($20.43 postpaid) from: 
Basic Books 
10 East 53rd Street 
New York, NY 10022 
800/242-7737 
or Whole Earth Access 
This book is a truly comprehensive look at the 
emergence of the information economy, from its 
origins in the 19th Century to its infiltration of mod- 
ern American industry. Zuboff, a Harvard Business 
School professor and industry consultant, focuses 
on several computerized firms — pulp mills, a 
telecommunications company, a pharmaceutical 
business, a bank — for a preview of the problems 
and solutions that are likely to arise in this next 
economy. 
— Sarah Vandershaf 
[Suggested by Howard Rheingold] 
The Second Self 
(Computers and 
the Human Spirit) 
Sherry Turkle 
Simon and Schuster 
OUT OF PRINT 
Get this book back in print! 
As a psychologist who has taught at MIT since 
1976, Sherry Turkle was well-placed to do the 
extensive field work that produced The Second 
Self. And what field work! Six years of it — inter- 
views with hundreds of children, video game ad- 
dicts, college students, hackers, personal com- 
puter hackers, and the cream of Artificial Intelli- 
gence academia. To her credit, the result of all this 
is not a droning statistical regurgitation of her en- 
counters, but a well-reasoned treatise centered 
around her contention that the computer offers us 
humans a new and powerful way to see ourselves. 
Turkle calls it a Rorschach. 
She starts by showing us that the computer stimu- 
lates little kids to talk philosophy and ends with a 
non-alarmist view of how Artificial Intelligence 
advances will bring a human-as-machine metaphor 
into common usage. Her perceptions, backed with 
long chunks of speech from her subjects (first 
names only given here), are provocative, reason- 
able, and sometimes witty. | was particularly 
pleased with her chapter on hackers, because her 
classical ethnographic approach led her to some 
conclusions that | had reached through a classical 
journalistic approach while researching my own 
book, Hackers. 
—Steven Levy 
¢ 
The hackers illustrate another facet of our emerging 
relationships with machines. Their response to the 
computer is artistic, even romantic. They want their 
programs to be beautiful and elegant expressions of 
¢ 
In oné area of Piney Wood, where a computer system 
automatically controlled the pulp-drying process, opera- 
tors had taken to calling the computer Otto (for auto- 
matic). They spoke about Otto according to their mood 
and estimation of its current level of performance. “Otto 
is the person who does all the thinking.” “Otto won't 
speed up fast enough.” “Otto just isn’t making any 
sense.” In another control room, a large axe was 
mounted on a wall, and underneath it was a sign that 
read,”"IN CASE OF COMPUTER FAILURE, USE FIRE 
AXE.” The crew leader told me that the axe had been 
presented to him by his co-workers — a sympathetic 
gesture toward his frequent frustration with the 
automatic controls. 
¢ 
The most striking feature of the operators’ behavior was 
the dependency they had developed on the computer 
system. Because of the relative simplicity of automating 
this part of the pulping process, the digesting module 
was the first in the plant to have a high level of computer 
control in the early 1970s. By 1982, there was wide 
agreement that it had become impossible to achieve a 
high-quality cook without the computer system. Manage- 
ment purchased an expensive backup computer when a 
their uniqueness and genius. They recognize one an- 
other not because they belong to the same “profession,” 
but because they share an urgency to create in their 
medium. They relate to one another not just as technical 
experts, but as creative artists. The Romantics wanted to 
escape rationalist egoism by becoming one with nature. 
The hackers find soul in the machine — they lose them- 
selves in the idea of mind building mind and in the sense 
of merging their minds with a universal system. When 
nineteenth-century Romantics looked for an alternative 
to the mechanism and competition of society, they 
looked to a perfect society of two, “perfect friendship,” or 
“perfect love.” This desire for fusion has its echo today, 
although in a new and troubling form. Instead of a quest 
for an idealized person, now there is the computer as 
second self. 
Smart Cards 
(The Ultimate Personal 
Computer) 
Jerome Svigals 
1985; 204 pp. 
$24.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
609/461-6500 
Automated teller machine cards are only a first 
step. Combine those with card-sized calculators 
and computer network connections, and you get — 
what? At the very least, electronic i.d. cards that 
pay your bills, punch your time clocks, and keep 
track of your daily progress through the world. At 
the most, pocket-sized windows for you to know 
about the world — and the world to know 
about you. 
The author, apparently an electronics engineer, 
considers smart cards A) a good thing and B) 
inevitable. | look at this book as you might look at a 
new power-plant proposal for your city. It’s a nec- 
essary document, but what we need to see — 
Insurance benefits analyst's self-portrait, after computerization of her 
office: “No talking, no looking, no walking. | have a cork in my mouth, 
blinders for my eyes, chains on my arms. With the radiation | have 
lost my hair. The only way you can make your production goals is 
give up your freedom.” 
systems failure revealed that the operators had lost their 
manual cooking skills. The operators freely admitted 
their dependency: 
“We would be lost without the screen. Sometimes when 
it goes down, we sit and stare at it; we don’t know what 
to do, we just sit and stare. Our job now really is to 
observe the screen. You may not be thinking exactly, but 
you sure have to pay attention.” 
“Before | started working in the control room, | would 
walk through here and think that everyone was crazy 
because they were just sitting in here all day long staring 
up at the screen. Now | do the same.” 
5 
When the plant manager asks, “Are we all going to be 
working for a smart machine, or will we have smart 
people around the machine?” he portrays two divergent 
scenarios. In the former, the line that separates worker 
from managers is sharply drawn. Workers are treated as 
laboring bodies, though in fact there is less that their 
bodies can contribute in effort or skill. As workers be- 
come more resentful and dependent, managers react by 
sinking more resources into automation. In the alterna- 
tive scenario, both groups work together to forge the 
terms of anew covenant, one that recasts the sources 
and purposes of managerial authority. The choice to 
automate will strike many as the easier and more expe- 
dient of the two. 
before these things are instituted, please — is an 
independent environmental impact report. 
— Art Kleiner 
Sd 
Tomorrow's ultimate personal computer is a hand-held 
package. The package has been prepared so that each 
one provides a specific application result. We will carry a 
set of these ultimate personal computers. There will be a 
library at home, in the office, and at our work location. 
Like a pocketbook, the cover will be immediately identifi- 
able as to its application area and expected results. In 
more complex applications, several Smart Cards will be 
used. 
____ MICRO 
PRINTING 
The VISA 
rete 
ft! 
|- HOLOGRAPHIC 
electron: 
a 
DOVE 
card anti- 
(3 Dimensional 
crime 
features. 
JOHN DOE 
PRINTED 
ISSUING BANK 
DOVE 
1.D. NUMBER 
ULTRAVIOLET 
UNIQUE 
EMBOSSED 
SYMBOL 
