46 
INDEPENDENT SCHOLARSHIP 
4 books on this page are out of print. Well, 
\>"€¥ 
there are two reasons for this. One: inas- 
(the real reason) we couldn’t find any 
4) good replacements for Ronald Gross’ 
books. Have fun tracking them down. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
The Lifelong Learner 
Ronald Gross 
1977; 190 pp. 
Simon and Schuster 
OUT OF PRINT 
Get this book back in print! 
| went to school for 18 years, 
which was at least four years too many. Ronald 
Gross has written a book | could have used in 
about 1972 that says the way to learn things is to 
pick something you’re interested in and follow it 
where it takes you — to libraries, free universities, 
art centers, churches, groups of people interested 
in the same thing, wise people in your neighbor- 
hood, and even, sometimes, school. 
The best part is the stories of particular lifelong 
learners like Ted Marchi, who learned to build 
roads because his part of Nebraska needed some; 
Helen Baker, who became a leading expert on 
juvenile rights with persistence and without a law 
degree or college education; and Malcolm X, who 
taught himself a lot of what he knew in the prison 
library. The key, as Helen Baker said, is, “When | 
want to know something, | go and find out.” That’s 
a faster and simpler process than wanting to know 
something and figuring out how to get accredited 
as an expert in it — a process that takes much 
time and money and doesn’t necessarily teach you 
what you wanted to know in the first place. 
That’s the message of this book. When | read it | 
thought, “Yeah, | know that.” Then | remembered it 
took me 18 years of schooling to figure it out. If you 
think that you’re only a serious learner when you're 
in school and that you have to stay there or go 
back to be serious, read this book. It might save 
you some boredom and wasted effort and yield 
you some fun and good work. 
—Anne Herbert 
¢ 
“With a shock | realized the way | ran my business was 
anti-learning. | had no tolerance for mistakes. | wanted 
everything done right the first time — including the 
solutions to problems nobody had faced before. 
¢ 
The most important tool of free learning is a log — or 
journal, diary, notebook, whatever you choose to call it. 
Always have a pad and pencil on hand for jotting down 
ideas, thoughts, feelings, and even dreams. (It's also 
useful for keeping track of reminders and random infor- 
mation.) 
Bear’s Guide to 
Non-Traditional 
College Degrees 
John Bear, Ph.D. 
1985; 265 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Ten Speed Press 
P.O. Box 7123 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
415/845-8414 
or Whole Earth Access 
Education and accreditation have parted ways. For 
job opportunity, get some easy degrees. For an 
interesting life, get some hard education. | can see 
good arguments for getting them separately — you 
don’t cross your purposes or narrow your possibili- 
ties so much. This intelligent, practical book will 
tutor you in the non-traditional course. 
—Stewart Brand 
¢ 
The philosophy behind “credit for life experience” can be 
expressed very simply: Academic credit is given for what 
you know, without regard for how, when, or where the 
learning was acquired. .. . 
The most common error people make when thinking 
about getting credit for life experience is to confuse time 
spent with learning. Being a regular church-goer for thirty 
years is not worth any college credit, in and of itself. But 
the regular church-goer who can document that he or 
she has taught Sunday school classes, worked with 
youth groups, participated in leadership programs, 
organized community drives, studied Latin or Greek, 
taken tours to the Holy Land, or engaged in lengthy 
The Independent 
Scholar’s Handbook 
Ronald Gross 
1982; 261 pp. 
Addison-Wesley 
OUT OF PRINT 
Get this book back in print! 
Ever talk about Plato at four 
in the morning in a doughnut shop with a well-read 
blue-collar stranger? That’s the feeling this book 
evokes. The author doesn't describe the ways to 
get accreditation, academic legitimacy, or even 
intellectual power. He tells how to find out the 
things that would change your life if you took the 
trouble to learn them, how to tell other people 
about them, and how to support yourself mean- 
while. The methods include reporting and cultivat- 
ing experts, but mainly forming the kind of relation- 
ship with libraries that master chefs have with their 
food suppliers. The book is full of anecdotes about 
independent researchers like Eric Hoffer that make 
you want to follow up everything they ever wrote; 
but more important, it’s full of solid advice, the kind 
that will be news even to people who have 
pursued this particular path with a heart for years. 
This catalog’s best contributors always seem to 
work this way. 
—Art Kleiner 
—“Teis my wish that this be the most educated country in the world, and 
toward that end I hereby ordain that each and every one of my people 
be given adiploma.”” 
philosophical discussions with a clergyman, is likely to 
get credit for those experiences. 
5 
In my counseling practice, | regularly hear from people 
who are distressed, often devastated, to have discov- 
ered that some project on which they have been working 
for many months was really not what their faculty advisor 
or school had in mind, so they are getting little or no 
credit for it. 
Indeed, | went through a similar sort of event myself. 
After | had worked nearly two years on my Doctorate, 
one key member of my faculty guidance committee died, 
and a second transferred to another school. No one else 
on the faculty seemed interested in working with me, and 
without a binding agreement of any sort, there was no 
way | could make it happen. | simply dropped out. 
o 
As your interests, feelings, curiosity, enthusiasm, and 
concerns begin to converge on a particular topic, it will 
be well to draft, purely for your own use at first, a brief 
statement of your plans. | have never known an inde- 
pendent scholar who did not discover, at the end of an 
hour or two of work on such a one-page statement, that 
he or she had sharper goals. 
4 
By making the process of browsing a bit more self- 
conscious, you can conduct your own informal “recon- 
naissance’” of the terrain of learning. All you have to do is 
follow these three rules: (1) Pick the best places. 
(2) Keep moving. (3) Keep a list. 
® 
Eric Hoffer said: Listen, suppose you come to San Fran- 
cisco looking for a person whose address you don’t 
know. You can trace him by research. You look in the 
telephone directory, you go to City Hall; if he’s a work- 
man, you go to the unions; if he’s a doctor, you go to the 
medical associations, and so on. This is not my way! My 
way is to stand on the corner of Powell and Market and 
wait for him to come by. And if you have all the time in 
the world and you are interested in the passing scene, 
this is as good a way as any; and if you don’t meet him, 
you are going to meet someone else. That's how | do 
research. | go to the library, | pick up the things that 
interest me, | use whatever comes my way. And | be- 
lieve that if you have a good theory, the things you need 
will come your way. You'll be lucky. You know what 
Pasteur said: Chance favors the prepared mind. 
“ Drawi
by 
Handel
© 
1972 
The 
New 
Yorker
Magazi
inc. 
