Serious Games 
coe 
Clark C. Abt 
ate 
1970, 1987; 176 pp. 
: 
$9.95 
($11.70 postpaid) from: 
University Press of America 
4720 Boston Way 
Lanham, MD 20706 
or Whole Earth Access 
Serious games are games designed to teach a 
skill, or to accomplish a complicated goal. Military 
war games are serious games. So are the man- 
agement games played in university business 
schools. Serious games can be fun. 
At the same time, games designed entirely for fun 
can be used for serious purposes, such as helping 
kids learn how to survive and thrive in real life. 
Games are often the best way to teach them strat- 
egy, cooperation, and intellectual skills. For the 
past ten years | have been devising new games 
that really work in schools. 
Serious Games is a classic book about games 
which simulate life’s complex rules. The author 
was inspired by games as a doctoral student in 
Henry Kissinger’s Harvard class on arms control. 
Long out of print, it’s back again. | wish every 
teacher would read it. 
—Bob Albrecht 
0 
Players often become so involved in their specific roles 
and in the game play itself that they do not consciously 
concern themselves with the wider, more universal 
consequences of a set of decisions. For this reason it is 
useful to have a postgame discussion to analyze and 
evaluate the forces which interacted, the over-all conse- 
quences of the game play, and the specific decisions 
which led to the consequences. In games where the out- 
The Evolution of 
Cooperation 
Robert Axelrod 
1984; 241 pp. 
$17.95 postpaid from: 
Basic Books, Inc. 
10 East 53rd Street 
New York, NY 10022 
or Whole Earth Access 
The “Prisoner's Dilemma” 
is a situation where two 
individuals can choose to cooperate with each 
other or not cooperate (defect). If they both coop- 
erate they each get three points. If they both defect 
they each get one point. If one cooperates and one 
defects, the cooperator gets zero and the defector 
gets five. Axelrod uses this non-zero-sum game to 
explain the arms race, international relations and 
the interaction of regulatory agencies with those 
they regulate. 
First the good news: In a population of individuals 
interested in their own welfare, where no central 
authority exists, it pays to cooperate. Cooperative 
rules “won” over noncooperative ones in simulated 
iterations. 
From Start Position to Apprenticeship 
One Year 
One Year 
Sample Moves: From Start position to Apprenticeship. 
come differs from historical reality, the reasons for the 
differences can then be considered; in games “rigged” to 
produce a particular result, the reasons for the rigging 
and the eliminated factors can be analyzed. The scope 
of learning, then, extends beyond the game itself and 
includes the analysis of the game, its components, and 
the context for which it was designed. 
Now the bad: In the same situations it also pays to 
be provokable (to defect in retaliation). Rules that 
were totally cooperative without retaliation did not 
win. 
There is little value for complexity here. The best 
strategy is simple enough to be readily recognized 
by another player. No strategy is a winning strat- 
egy by itself. It can only be judged by its interaction 
with other strategies. 
—Judith Brophy 
The universe in a grain of sand. The grain is a 
mathematical/sociological paradox, much studied, 
call “Prisoner's Dilemma.” The universe is the one 
we might survive into if these lessons are believed 
and applied. Scholarly tour-de-force. 
—Stewart Brand 
¢ 
A wonderful illustration of this principle is provided in the 
memoirs of Ron Luciano, a baseball umpire who some- 
times had his “bad days.” 
Over a period of time | learned to trust certain 
catchers so much that | actually let them 
GAME PLAYING 215 
Homo Ludens 
(A Study of the Play 
Element in Culture) 
Johan Huizinga 
1950, 220 pp. 
$4.95 postpaid from: 
Beacon Press 
Harper and Row 
Keystone Industrial Park 
Scranton, PA 18512 
or Whole Earth Access 
Huizinga contends that civilization owes its exis- 
tence to the play element—to special rituals apart 
from the daily grind which are joyful, contained in 
time, space, and rule structure, uncertain in out- 
come, requiring of fair play, participated in by all. 
To the roster of convivial tools that Ivan Illich fos- 
ters | would add widespread renewal of convivial 
gaming—play rituals at every level from family to 
planet. The more frivolous, the more essential to 
homo ludens. 
—Stewart Brand 
¢ 
The hazy border-line between play and seriousness is 
illustrated very tellingly by the use of the words “playing” 
or “gambling” for the machinations on the Stock Ex- 
change. The gambler at the roulette table will readily 
concede that he is playing; the stock-jobber will not. He 
will maintain that buying and selling on the off-chance of 
prices rising or falling is part of the serious business of 
life, at least of business life, and that it is an economic 
function of society. In both cases the operative factor is 
the hope of gain; but whereas in the former the pure 
fortuitousness of the thing is generally admitted (all 
“systems” notwithstanding), in the latter the player de- 
ludes himself with the fancy that he can calculate the 
future trends of the market. At any rate the difference of 
mentality is exceedingly small. 
umpire for me on the bad days. The bad days 
usually followed the good nights. 
. 
. 
. On those 
days there wasn't much | could do but take 
two aspirins and call as little as possible. If 
someone | trusted was catching . 
. 
. 
I'd tell 
them, “Look, it’s a bad day. You'd better take it 
for me. If it's a strike, hold your glove in place 
for an extra second. If it's a ball, throw it right 
back. And please, don’t yell.” 
This reliance on the catcher could work because if Lu- 
ciano ever suspected that he was being taken advan- 
tage of, he would have many opportunities to retaliate. 
The Prisoner’s Dilemma 
Column Player 
R=3, R=3 
S=0, T=5 
Reward for 
Sucker’s payoff, and 
temptation to defect 
Cooperate 
mutual cooperation 
Defect 
5 9S—0 
Temptation to defect 
and sucker’s payoff 
P=1, P=1 
Punishment for 
mutual defection 
Note: The payoffs to the row chooser are listed first. 
| 
