210 MIND CHEMISTRY 
Mind Food and 
Smart Pills 
Ross Pelton 
1986; 207 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.45 postpaid) from: 
T & R Publishers 
12922 Cree Drive 
Poway, CA 92064 
800/255-2665 
or Whole Earth Access 
Could be another crackpot vitamin book, but looks 
to me like there is enough intriguing studies cited 
here to be worth a glance. Subtitled “Nutrients and 
Drugs that Increase Intelligence and Prevent Brain 
Aging,” it parallels the information presented by R. 
U. Serious on the previous page. Needless to say, 
this is outlaw territory. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Sd 
Lucidril is one of the most promising new drugs in the 
areas of brain research and anti-aging. It was widely 
used throughout Europe to prevent biological aging and 
reverse the aging process (Kent, 1982a). Studies have 
shown that it removes age pigment deposits from brain 
cells (Nandy, 1968). This is actually reversing the aging 
process. Human clinical trials with Lucidril have demon- 
strated improvements in memory and mental functioning 
(Gedye, 1972; Marcer, 1977). 
Psychedelic 
Monographs 
and Essays 
Thomas Lyttle, 
Editor/Publisher 
$20/year 
(2 issues) from: 
Psychedelic Monographs 
and Essays 
624 NE 12th Avenue #1 
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33304 
This young periodical attempts to referee the 
underground investigation into psychedelic drugs, 
now in a revival after a decade’s lull. It flunks the 
measure for science journals, but passes the elec- 
tric kool-aid acid test. Delivers hard-to-collect data 
if you can put up with interviews from old 
drug gurus. 
—Kevin Kelly 
¢ 
In 5 years there were only 8 emer- 
gency room visits and one death re- 
ported to DEA involving MDMA, out of 
about 750,000 drug incidents. The few 
MDMA incidents probably involved 
overdoses. It's dangerous to take 
more than a standard dose or to mix 
drugs, and the results may show up 
quickly or only after several years or 
decades. So many drug deaths in- 
volved 2 or 3 drugs that it is 
CLEARLY DANGEROUS to take two 
drugs within 24 hours (unless both are 
prescribed by a physician together) or 
¢ 
They designed a study to look at the effects of Lucidril 
on synaptic deterioration. This study was published in 
1980 in Mechanisms of Aging and Development. The re- 
sults of this study are extremely exciting. They found that 
treatment with Lucidril restored the synaptic contact 
zones in brain cells of old rats to the values found in 
young animals (Guili, 1980). 
The effects of Lucidril on memory performance was 
studied in a double-blind study with 76 elderly subjects 
who were all in good physical health but suffered from a 
measurable amount of intellectual deterioration. The 
tests revealed that centrophenoxine appears to increase 
the storage of new information into long term memory. 
Many of the subjects also reported an increased level of 
mental alertness (Marcer, 1977). 
to take any drug and drink alcohol 
(which vastly intensifies drug absorption 
into the brain). There is no evidence at 
all of addiction to MDMA or dependency 
on it. However, when MDMA became 
popular in San Francisco and Texas, 
there were reports of people taking 
many doses in one day, and that 
MDMA’s good effects reversed at high 
doses and could cause bad trips (as well 
as permanent brain damage). 
od 
Chemical investigations have confirmed 
lysergic acid amides are produced in 
several plants of the bindweed family in- 
cluding Baby Hawaiian Woodroses, 
which contain up to.ten times the con- 
centration of psychoactives as Morning 
Glories. Lysergic acid amides including 
chanclavine, ergine, 
isoergine and er- 
gonovine are present in 
the psychoactive Argy- 
riea species which 
include speciosa, acuta, 
bernesii, capituata, 
osyrensis, wallichii, 
splendens, hainanensis, 
obtusifolia, and pseu- 
dorubicunda, mainly con- 
centrated in the seeds. 
The larger Hawaiian 
Woodrose, Merrimia tu- 
berosa, also produces 
such amides, but unlike 
the others it is not nearly 
as potent as the Baby 
Hawaiian Woodrose. 
$65/year 
4 
CONTRACTION 
Pharmacology 
S. Einstein, Editor 
(four issues) from: 
S.P./D.1.A., Inc. 
122 Carol Street 
Danbury, CT 06810 
They're right: it's more than chemicals. 
Figure A - Normal large cortical motor neuron in a young adult. Note 
the healthy dendritic system. Figure B - The same type of cell ina 75 
year old individual. The massive change in the dendritic system is 
obvious. (Stained by Golgi method, X450) 
The usual dosage of Lucidril administered in both animal and human clinical trials has been 
80 mg/kg of body weight. That translates to 9 tablets per day for a 120-Ib. person up to 16 
tablets per day for a 220-Ib. person. 
TRANSCENDENCE 
Fmphetamine 
Ego State 
EX PANSIOh 
Barbiturate 
Ego State 
DISSOLUTION 
Schematic Representa- 
tion of the Ego States in- 
duced by Five Major 
Drugs of Abuse. 
The white-lab-coat approach to mind-altering drugs. Scholarly 
papers about the broad issues of self-medication, the psychoso- 
cial aspects of drug taking behavior, and ‘the creation of knowl- 
edge, its transmission and utilization, about drugs, medicines and 
social substances.” 
— Kevin Kelly 
DRUG INDUCED EGO STATES: A TRAJECTORY THEORY OF DRUG 
EXPERIENCE 
(Abstract). This first of two reports describes the ego states induced by 
five substances of abuse: cocaine, heroin, amphetamine, barbituates 
and LSD. Descriptions of drug induced ego states are based on reports 
from 45 heavy, chronic drug users each of whom had experimented with 
a variety of substances before becoming personally committed to a par- 
ticular drug or class of drugs. A three-dimensional theoretical diagram, in 
the shape of a sphere, is presented and utilized to characterized the 
various ego states. 
