VOICE MAIL 
79 
The Practical Guide 
to Voice Mail 
Martin F. Parker 
1987; 306 pp. 
$24.95 postpaid from: 
McGraw Hill Books 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
609/426-5254 
4 
or Whole Earth Access 
Voice mail originated in answering machines. The 
message you hear on your everyday machine is, in 
a sense, a “voice letter” sent to a particular phone 
address. The “letter box” for this audio mail quickly 
developed into the interactive recording you get 
when you call hot-lines: “If you would like more 
information, dial a 2, if you would like....” Your 
voice is “mailed” to the right department. 
Voice mail is now exemplified by the marriage of 
keyboard to phone. In one kind of system, you'll 
see the titles of messages left for you displayed on 
Pagers 
by Blair Newman 
Over 6 million pagers (aka “beepers”) are now in use, 
because they’re the cheapest and most convenient way 
of “keeping in touch.” 
There are 4 different kinds of pagers, but all share a 
common characteristic: every pager is linked by radio to 
a unique telephone number. 
Tone Only: These pagers simply beep or vibrate when 
someone dials their phone number. To get the message 
you have to call your office, answering service, or 
answering machine. 
Digital: When a digital pager’s phone number is dialed 
a computer answers with a beep, and waits for the caller 
to touch tone dial a phone number, which then appears 
on the digital pager’s LCD display. Digital pagers are 
the most popular type, and typically rent for $17 to $24 
a month. 
Voice: When you call a voice pager’s number the 
computer answers with a beep and then records a 7 to 
10 second voice message. A few 
moments later the voice pager 
beeps and plays the voice 
message. Voice pager rentals run 
from $25 to $32 a month. 
Alphanumeric: Alphanumeric 
pagers, the newest technology, are 
The Metagram pager forwards messages 
to you via a 24 character LCD display. It 
has a total memory of 1,500 characters, 
and remembers messages until you erase 
them. 
a screen which you select visually, and then hear 
audibly. In another you can make a copy of your 
phone message to forward onto a colleague, or 
save ina 
file, or command that acknowledgement 
of receipt be announced next time the sender calls. 
The sender also has the choice of hearing his 
message to edit it before it is “sealed” and sent. 
In the future, all forms interbreed and hybridize. 
Currently voice mail is seen primarily in 
elephantine systems. This book expertly tracks the 
rapid evolution of voice mail toward rodent-like 
ubiquitousness, compactness, and domestication. 
— 
Kevin Kelly 
5 
Some Voice Mail users check their messages at regular, 
convenient times; others prefer to have Voice Mail notify 
them whenever one or more new messages have been 
sent to their Voice Mail mailbox. In either case, the first 
step in doing your mail will be to enter your personal 
password from the touch-tone keys of your telephone. 
(You can change this password at any time, so that you 
will always be sure your messages are confidential.) You 
like digital pagers except their display shows both 
letters and numbers — so you get the entire message 
instantly. They’re priced at $35 to $40 a month, but 
calling the alphanumeric pager’s number requires a 
modem equipped computer to communicate the text 
message. 
The most advanced pager service (the one I use) is 
provided by Metagram Corp. They’ve combined a 24 
hour answering service with full text paging. Put your 
phone on call forwarding to your Metagram number and 
a live operator answers in your name, keyboards the 
message, and it shows up instantly on your pager. The 
Metagram pager has a 1,500 character capacity, and 
remembers messages until you explicitly erase them — 
it’s the electronic equivalent of a stack of pink “While 
You Were Out” slips. Metagram is now available in 
many major cities, and they’re rapidly expanding 
nationwide. Pricing is $60 a month, which is less than 
the combination of an answering service and digital 
(number only) paging. 
For more information check under Paging in your 
Yellow Pages. To find out if Metagram is available in 
your area, call (800) 262-6382. 
Voice Mail Says: 
User Does or Says: 
1 
4) (To enter password) 
“Please enter mailbox number.” 
“Please enter password.” 
“You have three new messages. 
Press 2 to receive your messages.” 
“Hi, Fred, this is George...” 
(at end of message) 
“Press 4 to save this message; press 
9 to delete it.” 
“Deleted.” 
“Next message.” 
and so on. 
Figure 5-4. 
“Doing” your Voice Mail 
Listening to your voice mail. From The Practical Guide to Voice 
Mail. 
can then listen to your Voice Mail messages and handle 
them much as you handle letters in an in-basket. One at 
a time, you listen to a message, review it if necessary, 
and then decided what action to take. You can throw the 
message away; answer it; send it to someone else for 
action or information; or save it for future action, 
reference, or reminder. If you are looking for a certain 
message, you can scan through your Voice Mail without 
completely listening to each message. 
¢ 
A Voice Mail service bureau makes it possible to have a 
Voice Mail mailbox without buying a Voice Mail system 
or installing the system in your company's facilities. A 
Voice Mail service bureau is a service company that 
installs a medium-to-large-sized Voice Mail system with 
the capacity to provide many mailboxes and then rents 
these mailboxes to subscribers for a monthly fee. 
Watson 
Version 6.2; $199. From: Natural Microsystems 
8 Erie Drive, Natick, MA 01760; 617/655-0700 
Watson is a board that fits into your IBM PC or PC- 
compatible computer and turns it into a flexible 
voice mail center. Watson’s basic function is to 
answer calls and record messages, but you can 
also program it to give messages to specific callers 
when they enter an ID code. If you want to deliver 
a series of messages to callers (for instance, a list 
of possible extensions they can dial) Watson can 
do it, and even change the sequence of messages 
in response to touch-tone signals from the caller. 
Watson also has the ability to make stock calls for 
you, dialing a pre-programmed series of numbers, 
delivering the message, and recording a voice or 
touch-tone response. If anumber is busy, Watson 
will automatically call back later. Sort of like having 
a tiny phone operator in a box. 
— Richard Kadrey 
