226 FURTHER 
How to Contribute to Future Updates of Signal 
HE EVALUATIONS IN SIGNAL ARE IN 
some cases inadequate. In every case they will date at 
the usual rate — fast. When you are sure that something 
you know is better than what we’ve run, have at us. 
We depend on far-flung expertise to keep our recom- 
mendations sharp. Contributing what you know is how 
we can be more comprehensively accurate in pointing at 
excellence. 
When will there be an update to Signal? Don’t know. 
Do know that when (if) it happens, feedback from 
readers will be a paramount part of its content and 
cause. Here’s our standard advice for suggesting and 
reviewing items: 
¢ Send them. We don’t know about things unless some- 
one tells us. Address your communications to Assistant 
Editor, 27 Gate 5 Road, Sausalito, CA 94965. We often 
print things that everyone, including the author, thought 
were too odd to be printed anywhere. 
° Give the kind of information you would like to get. 
This should include what the item is good for, how it 
compares to others, where to get it, and some clue to 
how competent you are to judge. Avoid comments like 
“This is a good book.” Prove it. 
¢ Think of yourself as writing a letter to an intelligent, 
uninformed friend. That’s us. Be succinct. A paragraph 
is frequently enough. You don’t have to analyze it, just 
tell us why you love it and why we should run it. 
e Keep a copy. We are careful but not perfect. Be patient 
too. We are busy and want to carefully consider each 
submission. We’ll let you know if we are going to use 
it. If you don’t hear from us, it means we aren’t. 
¢ We pay for everything we print, including complaint 
letters. You get $20 for a review and $20 for first sug- 
gestion ($40 if we use both). Articles get more, depend- 
ing on wonderfulness, clarity, ease of handling, and 
profusion of illustrations. 
e Suppliers are invited to suggest their own goods. 
Samples or review copies are welcomed; response not 
predictable. We ask for no payment and will accept 
none. We serve as an information exchange and owe 
only accuracy to suppliers. 
Samples, suggestions, and surveys should be sent to: 
Whole Earth Catalog 
27 Gate 5 Road 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
415/332-1716 
How To Receive Future Updates of Signal 
IGNAL WAS INCREMENTALLY GROWN. 
The knowledge gathered here is built upon 20 years of 
highly selective filtering. Both the content and process 
have evolved. 
Key parts of this book began as embryonic ideas in our 
ongoing research tool, the Whole Earth Review, a quar- 
terly magazine. There we freely try out new products, 
test promising books, and incubate half-baked ideas. A 
few survive. They are tested again against competitors 
during the assembly of each accumulated publication. 
All along we print our reports in the pages of Whole 
Earth Review. The best place to keep up with our con- 
tinued investigation into Signal frontiers, is to subscribe 
to Whole Earth Review. 
Each issue is 144 pages long, with merely two pages of 
advertising (entirely consisting of small unclassifieds 
available to subscribers only). The other 142 pages 
flaunt unorthodox technical news, first-hand reports of 
personal experiments, art, cartoons, excerpts from hard- 
to-find books, and anything else that might qualify as 
conceptual news. 
Some recent articles in the last year: 
¢ The rights of robots 
¢ Voodoo and the origins of rock’n’roll 
¢ Rental tools no one has ever told you about 
¢ The information-wants-to-be-free business strategy 
Software to run a country with 
e Access to World Beat music 
The cryonic suspension of a human head 
e Interactive history 
¢ Opiate chemicals as the information of emotions 
¢ Evolutionary sidestep theory 
The economic structure of Whole Earth Review is of a 
non-profit reader-driven service. We carry almost no 
advertising (except reader ads) and do almost no adver- 
tising ourselves. Carrying no advertising means we have 
the freedom to serve readers unusual topics that a more 
commercial magazine would have difficulty persuading 
advertisers to support. No ads means our income is 
almost exclusively from readers who renew loyally. 
Those readers in turn pass on word of the magazine to 
friends, which helps us avoid having to advertise our- 
selves, except as we are doing now. We are reader- 
supported in another, equally important way. About half 
of the material in each issue is reader-suggested, or 
reader-written. 
With such a notoriously vague self-definition, Whole 
Earth Review manages to wander a wide conceptual 
landscape and still remain true to itself and its readers. 
We have no idea where the magazine is going because 
the future isn’t predictable. We’ll go where issues are 
murky, the crosscurrents are swift, and the risk substan- 
tial and rewarding. It’s $20 per year for four seasonal 
issues of the best ideas we can find. 
Sign up by sending your check or credit card info to: 
Whole Earth Review 
Box 38 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
415/332-1716 
Subscriptions: $20/year (4 issues) for U.S. Surface mail; 
foreign subscribers add $4/yr. for surface delivery, and 
$8/yr. for airmail. 
