Fractals & Such 
by Robert Horvitz 
The August 1985 Scientific American had a gorgeous, 
mysterious picture on its cover: a black disk rimmed 
with smaller disks, surrounded by Kirlian halos of 
multicolored flame. A. K. Dewdney explained, in that 
issue’s “Computer Recreations” column, that the image 
represented part of the edge of the Mandelbrot Set, one 
- of the most complex mathematical forms ever devised. 
His article was illuminated with close-ups of other 
regions on the edge of the M-Set. Deliriously detailed, 
all were generated on a computer by repeating a simple 
calculation on a field of real and imaginary numbers. 
When this is done many times, the plane around the 
Mandelbrot Set erupts in convoluted symmetries and 
fluid-crystal swirls, as the algorithm drives points 
_outside the set to infinity. This explosive turbulence can 
be made visible by assigning colors to the speed at 
which each coordinate “flees.” The resulting image is 
mathematically rigorous yet shamelessly psychedelic — 
wilder but more highly ordered than any manmade 
design. Since making the cover of Scientific American, 
the Mandelbrot Set has acquired something of a cult 
following, as people explore the minute worlds-within- 
worlds at its margin. 
The M-Set is a particularly spectacular example of a 
“fractal” — that is, a form with edges that are unsmooth 
at any magnification. (Perhaps not surprisingly, the set’s 
discoverer, Benoit Mandelbrot, was the primary 
developer of fractal geometry.) Fractals are not just an 
eye-tickling family of irregular shapes; they are a new 
The Beauty of 
Fractals 
Heinz-Otto Peitgen and 
Peter H. Richter 
1986; 199 pp. 
$35 
($37.50 postpaid) from: 
Springer-Verlag New York, Inc. 
44 Hartz Way 
Secaucus, NJ 07094 
or Whole Earth Access 
Some seventy dazzling color pictures, and many 
more in black and white, make this a seductive 
introduction for those not mathematically inclined. 
At the same time, it’s packed with enough 
advanced mathematics to keep a grad student 
busy for years. Capping it off, there are thoughtful 
essays on the impact of fractals on the way we 
view nature, science and art, as well as a personal 
account of the discovery of the M-Set and a review 
of the evolution of fractal geometry by Mandelbrot 
himself. 
—RH 
¢ 
Why is geometry often described as cold and dry? One 
reason lies in its inability to describe the shape of a 
cloud, a mountain, a coastline, or a tree. Clouds are not 
spheres, mountains are not cones, coastlines are not 
circles, and bark is not smooth, nor does lightning travel 
in a straight line. . 
. 
. Nature exhibits not simply a higher 
degree but an altogether different level of complexity. 
tool for analyzing and modeling natural phenomena that 
have eluded description in more traditional terms. In 
addition, the technique used to generate the M-Set, 
“iterative mapping,” has applications in the simulation 
of “chaotic” processes that have only begun to be 
tapped. 
The beauty, versatility and descriptive power of fractals 
and iterative mapping have inspired a new kind of 
graphic research flourishing between art and science. 
Here are a few gateways into this field: 
The number of distinct scales of length of patterns is for 
all purposes infinite. 
The existence of these patterns challenges us to study 
those forms that Euclid leaves aside as being formless, 
to investigate the morphology of the amorphous. 
Mathematicians have disdained this challenge, however, 
and have increasingly chosen to flee from nature by 
devising theories unrelated to anything we can see 
or feel. 
At any given place, the sea-horse motif 
is taken through an infinite number of 
variations. This is shown in the 
enlargement series in the “sea-horse 
valley,” which up to a magnification of 
one million shows ever new 
constellations of “tail” and “eye” of the 
sea-horse. 
Art Matrix 
catalog free from Art Matrix, P.O. 
Box 880, Ithaca, NY 14851 
The leading vendor of high- 
resolution M-Set color graphics 
— videos, slides, photoprints, 
and postcards. You gotta love a 
company whose motto is “A 
Fractal in Every Paw.” Also 
produces work on commission, 
and develops and sells 
software. 
Amygdala 
Rollo Silver, Editor 
$15/year 
(10 issues or 25 color slides); $30/year (both) from: 
Amygdala, Box 219, San Cristobal, NM 87564 
Newsletter for people interested in the Mandelbrot 
Set. Short articles (including some “math-fi,” a new 
fiction genre related to sci-fi); reviews of fractal- 
generating software and algorithmic shortcuts; and 
a running bibliography of important fractal 
publications. Two kinds of subscriptions are 
offered: you get either 10 issues of the newsletter, 
or 25 color slides of the M-Set released over the 
same time period. Or you can get both the slides 
and the newsletter. 
By the way, “Amygdala” is Latin for “almond;” 
“Mandelbrot” is Yiddish for ‘almond bread;” and 
“amygdaloid” is an igneous rock with rounded 
cavities filled with mineral crystals. 
—RH 
FRACTALS 
11 
