110 BODY LANGUAGE 
Tattoo: Pigments 
of Imagination 
Chris Wroblewski 
1987; 128 pp. 
$15.95 
($17.45 postpaid) from: 
Harper & Row 
2350 Virginia Avenue 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
or Whole Earth Access 
Tattoos winding up backs, twisting around legs 
and arms, or curling up in some small curve of 
skin: dragons, eagles, cats, exotically dressed 
humans, and lots of other tattoo motifs writhe off 
the pages in Chris Wroblewski’s book of dramatic 
color photographs. 
American and English tattoo art is featured, 
The Expression of the Emotions in 
Man and Animals 
Charles Darwin 
1873, 1965; 372 pp. 
$15 
($16.50 postpaid) from: 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley 
Chicago, IL 60628 
312/568-1550 
or Whole Earth Access 
Are we less joyful than gorillas? Less fearful than 
baboons? Does each species have its own 
repertoire of emotional possibilities? Do some (the 
dolphins) express emotions we have no name for? 
Darwin started it. His followers prefer “aggression” 
to anger; “submission” to affection. 
They copped 
out. 
—Peter Warshall 
o 
As the sensation of disgust primarily arises in connection 
Bearclaw and bird 
by Cliff Raven, 
USA, 1981. 
[ Far right] Tattoo 
by Dave Ross, 
UK., 1985. 
mainly examples of the more outrageous, abstract design 
of the ’70s and ’80s. Not too many anchors and “I love 
mom” tattoos, in other words. The introductory text is brief 
and perfunctory; look elsewhere for detailed history of the 
art. This is a fun visual introduction to the multicultural 
symbols of modern tattoo art and the various characters 
who choose to wear them. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
with the act of eating or tasting, it is natural that its 
expression should consist chiefly in movements round 
the mouth. But as disgust also causes annoyance, it is 
Obsolete Body 
Suspensions 
Stelarc 
1984; 160 pp. 
$16.95 
($18.95 postpaid) from: 
Contemporary Arts Press 
P. O. Box 3123 
Rincon Annex 
San Francisco, CA 94119 
I’ve never actually seen Stelarc perform a body 
suspension. I’m not sure I'd want to. The stretched 
landscape of his skin as he hangs from hooks 
through his flesh is difficult to look at even in a 
book. 
Yet images of Stelarc hanging — above water, 
Tamura Gallery, Tokyo — 11 May, 1980. The body was suspended in a sitting position encircled by 18 granite rocks, which counterbalanced its 
weight. Each rock weighed between 3.5 — 4.2 kgms. One rock for each insertion point. The rocks were first suspended from eye-bolts in the 
ceiling then connected to the body sitting on the floor. The rocks were then lowered, lifting the body into space. During the suspension time of 
approx. 17 minutes the body swayed, gently swinging all the rocks in different directions. 
generally accompanied by a frown, and often by 
gestures as if to push away or to guard oneself against 
the offensive object. 
Sneering, Defiance: Uncovering the canine tooth on one side. The 
upper lip is retracted in such a manner that the canine tooth on one 
side of the face alone is 
shown; the face itself is 
generally a little upturned and 
half averted from the person 
causing offense. Mr. Rejlander 
has photographed for me a 
lady, who sometimes uninten- 
tionally displays the canine on 
one side, and who can do so 
voluntarily with unusual 
distinctness. 
surrounded by rocks, from granite slabs, or from 
wooden poles — have floated in 
my mind’s eye 
ever since seeing his book. As | stare into my 
computer, delving into the mindspace of the 
networks and electronic drawers where | store and 
manipulate my ideas, Stelarc haunts me. 
Disembodiment has for me become one of the 
resounding themes of the information age; his 
images reharness mind to body with the fierceness 
of a whip cracking in slow motion. And then slice 
them apart. The body is left suspended 
somewhere in mind, an obsolete carcass, empty, 
meaningless. 
This book documents Stelarc’s performances from 
his first suspension in 1976 through 1984. The 
large-format black-and-white photography makes 
you feel closer to the real events than you may 
care to get. Stelarc claims the subject of his work is 
not the hooks. It’s worth looking at and beyond 
them to his bizarre, disturbing vision of physical 
submission to technology. And frightening. 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
