Cheapest 
Synthesizers 
Information free from: Yamaha 
Music Corporation, Digital Musical 
Instrument Division, P. O. Box 
6600, Buena Park, CA 90622: 714/ 
522-9011; Casio Corporation, 15 
Gardner Road, Fairfield, NJ 07006; 
201/575-7400. Prices are 
approximate. 
The standing rule of thumb in 
electronic music is that having 
many really cheap synthesizers 
is better than having a single 
expensive one. Richness and 
diversity in sound comes by the 
different ways in which each 
synthesizer computes a signal. 
Yamaha uses FM (as in the 
radio broadcast) for its synthe- 
sizing function. Casio uses a 
choppy digital process. Others 
use an “additive” algorithm. 
Take a multitude of sources, 
blend them together, and you'll 
get sound textured in the way 
real-life sounds are — impure, 
uneven, rich. 
Combining sound generators, 
there’s no reason to have a 
keyboard on each, so the 
cheapest synthesizer module doesn't. It is the 
Yamaha TX81Z (about $400), roughly the size of a 
hardback book. Some music stores that cater to 
electronic musicians have these keyboardless 
units stacked on the floor. Composers walk out 
with three or four of them. Each one they add is 
another layer of grain in their music fabric. 
To use them you'll need at least one synth with a 
keyboard and the usual MIDI paraphernalia. The 
by-now-old standard at the low end is the Casio 
CZ-101 for around $300. It has a mini-keyboard 
which feels cramped, but you can link it to a hi-fi 
Roland D-50 
Suggested retail $2095 (but available for much less at 
many independent music stores); Catalog free from: 
RolandCorp US, 7200 Dominion Circle, Los Angeles, CA 
90040; 213/685-5141 
Roland must have asked musicians exactly what 
they wanted in a synthesizer because the D-50 just 
about has it all: the ability to create new and differ- 
ent sounds, the realism of a sampler, 
built-in effects like Chorus, EQ and 
reverb, and a responsive keyboard. 
The D-50 uses an innovative Linear/ 
Algorithmic (LA) synthesizer to pro- 
duce warm, analog-type tones; the D- 
50 also carries 100 sampled sounds in 
its memory; you can combine these 
with your synthesized sounds, or use 
them to construct realistic-sounding 
samples. The D-50 is also easy to use 
(although you might not know it from 
tape deck and revel in a variety of built-in sounds. 
If touch sensitivity is important (the harder you hit 
the keys the louder the sound is) you'll have to get 
a velocity-sensitive keyboard. Currently the Casio 
CZ-1 ($600) is a good choice. The next step up 
from that is a used Yamaha DX-7 (about $1,000; 
used DX-7II’s are still relatively rare and so a bit 
more expensive), the music industry workhorse. An 
alternative option for a professional tool is to com- 
bine the CZ-1 with the nifty TX81Z box. You get 
two flavors of sound generation (FM and digital) for 
better variety. 
—Kevin Kelly and Ramon Sender Barayon 
looking at the owner's manual). Unlike FM synthe- 
sis, as on Yamaha’s DX-7, the D-50’s LA synthesis 
allows you to create the sounds you have in mind, 
quickly and predictably. If you’re looking for a per- 
formance synthesizer that sounds good, 
is easy to 
use, and offers a wealth of resources for program- 
ming new sounds, the D-50 may be just the right 
instrument for you. 
— Paul Blankinship 
SYNTHESIZERS 127 
MIDI for Musicians 
Craig Anderton 
1986; 105 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
Music Sales Corp. 
Distribution Center 
P. O. Box 572 
Chester, NY 10918 
212/254-2100 
or Whole Earth Access 
Electronic technology has recently given musicians 
several powerful tools: synthesizers, sound sam- 
plers, sequencers, and editors (devices which 
store sequences of sounds and give the musician 
the power to delete or add notes or parts, to play 
passages at various speeds, to change the order 
of parts, and write compositions in step time and 
play them back in real time. However, for many 
years each manufacturer had a different standard. 
A Yamaha sequencer, for example, might not work 
properly to sequence a part played on a Roland 
synthesizer. In order to allow various musical in- 
struments and computers to work with each other 
regardless of the manufacturer, a standard format 
was developed called MIDI, Musical Instrument 
Digital Interface. This is a brand new technology 
(it’s only been around since 1983). It gives musi- 
cians tremendous power to compose and record. 
This is the book that best explains what MID] is 
and does. 
— Rob Griffith 
5 
Due to the rapid rate of technological change, instru- 
ments often became obsolete within a few months after 
their introduction. Eventually keyboard players were 
almost afraid to buy anything because they felt that a 
newer, better version would be introduced soon. Al- 
though MIDI hasn’t put an end to this problem, it has 
certainly helped extend the useful life of a piece of 
equipment by making it compatible with newer devices. 
Scanning Delays 
Some keyboard players can notice slight timing 
errors when they play a computer-controlled key- 
board; in other words, the timing just isn’t as “tight” 
as they would like. But as mentioned in the body of 
the text, the entire scan takes less than a milli- 
second 
. 
. 
. so what’s the problem? 
Delays can occur because of what the com- 
puter does between scans. During this time it is 
monitoring the MIDI data, perhaps calculating 
envelope shapes, sending messages to a display, and 
so on. As a result, successive scans may be separ- 
ated by as much as 15 milliseconds. Most instru- 
ments seem to do a scan around every 10 ms or so, 
which is not an objectionable delay by any means. 
MALE XLR 
FEMALE XLR 
FRONT VIEW 
XLR CONNECTOR PIN NUMBERING 
