THE ELECTRONIC LANDSCAPE 
by Brock 
N. Meeks 
With over 3,000 electronic services available to anyone with a modem, personal com- 
puter and telephone line, the question of “which one do I use?” often narrows down to 
“which service most appeals to me on a personal level?” 
Below is a “personality sketch,” if you will, of several different online services; the 
sketch is done with a broad brush rather than a detailed pen and ink rendering. You'll 
find some of these services resemble a large metropolitan city. Others can be likened 
to a country club atmosphere, and some are strictly business resources. 
CompuServe 
Columbus, Ohio; 614/457-8650; $11.75/hour 
CompuServe is the biggest online service 
inthe nation. With more than 500 different 
services and forums, and more 
than 
250,000 subscribers, CompuServe is like 
New York City complete with its ethnic 
barrios, eclectic culture, and high brow 
tastes. 
It is Manhattan, the Bronx and 
Central Park all rolled into one, 24 hours a 
day, 365 days a year. 
Special Interest Groups (SIGs) draw like 
minded people together in an electronic 
meeting place to discuss their personal 
commondenominator, be that Rock Music, 
Telecommunications, or Assembly Lan- 
guage programming. Each SIG contains a 
database with a wealth of information and 
computer programs focusing on the par- 
ticular special interest. 
The most popular service on CompuServe 
is the “CB Simulator” where hundreds of 
people “type talk” at each other via their 
keyboards, from all corners of the world. 
Participation here is like being in the midst 
of one giant cocktail party; you can be 
“vocal” or simply “listen in” by watching the 
lines of conversation 
scroll past your 
screen. 
If you’re into big cities, CompuServe offers 
you just that: an impersonal metropolis 
where you have to ferret out your own 
comfortable niche. 
The Source 
McLean, Virginia; 703/734-7500; $8.40/hour for 
SIGs 
If CompuServe is the Hertz of online serv- 
ices, The Source is Avis; they're number 
two, but they try harder. The Source has 
SIGs, like CompuServe, but they’ve never 
attained the popularity of those on Com- 
puServe. The big drawing point for The 
Source is the conferencing system struc- 
ture itself, called Participate, or simply 
Parti. 
Parti allows users to create their own con- 
ferences, and here you'll find conferences 
on every subiect imaginable. 
Because 
these conferences are run by the users, 
their stability is often quirky; one week 
they’re flourishing with activity, the next 
they are silent. Atany particular time, Parti 
is like fraternity party on a Friday night. 
The Source also offers organizations the 
opportunity to set up private conferences 
for theirown private use. This combination 
of a party like atmosphere and a serious 
business use gives The Source a “split 
personality.” Because of this, The Source 
has struggled to really define itself, and 
maybe why, after all these years, they’re 
still “trying harder.” 
Delphi 
Cambridge, Massachusetts; 617/491-3393; $6.60/ 
hour, direct dial-in after 6 P.M. 
Delphi, for a long time, was the only “alter- 
native” online service for those disen- 
chanted with both The Source and Com- 
puServe; akind of online refugee’s retreat. 
As aresult, Delphi developed a very close 
and loyal following. You either love or hate 
Delphi, there’s not much middle ground. 
Delphi's user base has never grown much, 
topping out atless than 10,000. You'll find 
SIGs here, but because the user base is 
smaller, there’s definitely more of a “home 
town” feel to the system. 
Easy to use, easy to get used to. You won't 
find an overwhelming list of services here; 
but you might just find your electronic 
home. 
Byte Information Exchange 
Peterborough, New Hampshire; 603/924-7323; $9/ 
hour, direct dial-in after 6 P.M. 
This service is a direct outgrowth from one 
of the computer industry's most popular 
publications, BYTE magazine. Byte Infor- 
mation Exchange, or BIX for short, is high 
tech stomping ground that boasts some of 
the nation’s most brilliant (and outspoken) 
computer personalities. Itis also the home 
of an award winning online news service 
called Microbytes Daily, a daily news wire 
focusing on the computer industry. 
If you've got a technical question—about 
anything—you'll find the answer in any of 
BIX’s freewheeling conferences. 
This is 
the computer industry as it used to be: 
people sharing ideas and solutions without 
the greed and grit associated with today's 
corporate driven, litigation-laced industry. 
Despite the technical prowess displayed 
online, the feel of BIX is more like an 
informal gathering rather than the stuffy 
academic air thatis usually associatedwith 
technical discussions. 
In addition, BIX has perhaps the largest 
NOTABLE NETWORKS 
active group of international users. And 
BIX isn't just all technical bits and bytes. 
Like the quirky personalities that made the 
emerging computer industry one of the 
most colorful groups around, you'll find 
conferences here dedicated to anything 
from cats to current events. 
Whole Earth ‘Lectronic Link 
Sausalito, 
California; 415/332-4335; $8/month 
membership, plus $2/hour connect charge 
Established as an outgrowth of the Whole 
Earth Catalog, the WELL is a mirror image 
of the iconoclastic publication. (See page 
73 for details). 
The WELL’s personality is “people first, 
technology a distant third or fourth.” Just 
how “people-like” is the WELL? A good 
example are the WELL parties held at 
regular intervals where members get to- 
gether face-to-face and carry on the dis- 
cussions and relationships cultivated on- 
line. 
WELL users are affectionately referred to 
as “Wellbeings”; conference moderators 
are “Fair Witnesses.” The system is heav- 
ily infused with intellect and compassion; 
ideology and idealism. 
Authors, 
artists, 
Silicon Valley hi-tech 
experts, political activists, all gather here in 
a passionate give and take of daily debate 
that makes the WELL one of the most 
unique systems available. 
If you're looking for a stimulating conversa- 
tion, among an extremely accepting and 
intelligent populace, this is the place. 
If 
you're looking for online shopping, com- 
puter programs, or online game playing, 
you'll have to look elsewhere. 
Chariot 
Old Colorado Springs, Colorado; Office 303/632- 
4848; Online 303/632-4111 
Like the WELL, Chariotis aregional-type of 
system, reflecting the atmosphere of its 
surrounding area. Based in Old Colorado 
Springs, CO, this system was spear- 
headed by one of the legends in the elec- 
tronic community, Dave Hughes. 
Hughes’ longstanding passion for the po- 
tential of online communications has led to 
Chariot being the focus of everything from 
local government to a segment on the 
McNeil-Lehrer News Hour. 
Like the WELL, Chariothasa personality of 
“home folks” passionately involved in life; 
the fact that they happen to own a modem 
is almost an afterthought. 
If Chariot is known for anything, it must be 
the several avenues of “leading edge” 
applications supported on the system. 
Packet Radio communications, electronic 
democracy, and NAPLPS, a sophisticated 
computer graphics standard that enables 
the combination of text and graphics to be 
combined on the same screen, are just a 
few of the applications promoted. 
For 
these applications, and others like them, 
Chariot is a virtual nationwide clearing- 
house of information. 
GEnie 
Rockville, Maryland; 301/340-4494; $5/hour 6 P.M. 
- 8 A.M. Monday - Friday, weekends, and holidays 
The youngest of the systems noted here, 
GEnie is quickly emerging as a sophisti- 
cated and well respected online service. 
It contains a well-rounded offering of serv- 
ices, including SIGs, online news services, 
and a CB Simulator like CompuServe’s. 
Because the system is still relatively new, 
the system has a more friendly feel to it 
than either The Source or CompuServe. 
You won't be overwhelmed by esoteric 
commands needed to navigate the sys- 
tem. The SIGs are small enough so that 
members know each other and discus- 
sions are lively and well attended. 
If you're looking for alot 
of features, and still 
want a friendly atmosphere, at a good 
price, GEnie is a good choice. You won't 
find the personal level of interaction found 
onasystem like the WELL, but the range of 
features may draw you into GEnie over a 
system like the WELL. 
People/Link 
Chicago, Illinois; 312/870-4260; $4.95/hour 6 P.M. - 
8 A.M. Monday - Friday, weekends, and holidays 
“Love at first byte” is the motto of People/ 
Link, or Plink, asitis known amongits loyal 
users. 
It's been called the electronic ver- 
sion of New York’s famous Studio 54; on 
any one night you might find Tom Selleck, 
Robert Redford, Madonna and Whitney 
Houston online—all electronic alter-egos, 
of course. 
The system promotes an atmosphere of 
mirth and myth; advertisements for the 
system have depicted a nerdy looking 
accountant transforming himself into an 
electronic version of Indiana Jones for a 
foray into Plink’s Partyline CB simulator- 
type service. 
There’s not much substance here, SIGs 
are called Club-Links and tend to be super- 
ficial, at best, superfluous at worst. How- 
ever, the system doesn’tattempt to camou- 
flage this image. This system is strictly for 
fun; don’t log on here expecting to enter 
into a serious dialog on SDI. 
Quantum Link 
Vienna, Virginia; 703/448-8700; $9.95/month for 
basic services 
Quantum 
Link is somewhat narrow in 
scope; you have to have a Commodore 64 
or 128 computer to log on here. 
Other 
machines are locked out due to the way the 
software is setup. Given that, the system 
draws from the largest group of Commo- 
dore owners: kids. 
This gives Quantum 
Link the personality of eternal youth, com- 
plete with youths zest for life, and its ac- 
companying foibles and follies. 
Online game playing, both solitary and 
interactive with other members, is a big 
draw here. Although it’s a good source of 
information for the Commodore computer, 
it's not much use to anyone over the age of 
18. 
15 
