The General Mobile 
Radio Service 
by Benn Kobb 
Instantaneous, two-way mobile voice communication 
can save a lot of time and trouble in daily life, and be 
very useful in managing group activities. 
In the mid-1970s, when truck drivers set up rolling radio 
networks to warn of speed-traps and help each other 
find fuel during the oil embargo, Citizens Band (CB) 
radio boomed. Though still somewhat useful for moni-. 
toring traffic conditions and reporting emergencies, CB 
today is plagued by interference, technical shortcom- 
ings, and a subculture of recreational users. CB is not 
suitable for many personal communications needs. 
However, the General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS), 
CB’s predecessor, offers professional quality, noise- 
free, two-way communications on frequencies that 
make smaller hand-held radios practical: GMRS is 
making a comeback among folks who need radio to 
coordinate their daily personal, business and family 
activities. 
Unlike amateur, commercial and governmental radio 
services, where only certain types of information may 
legally be transmitted, GMRS licensees can use their 
channels to discuss any personal or business matter, so 
long as proper station identification is used and mes- 
sages are relatively brief. 
An FCC license is required, but you don’t have to learn 
Morse Code, pass a technical exam, or be a business to 
get one. You simply have to fill out a license form 
correctly and be at least 18 years old. The license costs 
$30 and is good for 5 years. It permits you to operate on 
one or two of GMRS’s eight channels. License forms 
and instruction guides are available from your local 
FCC office, or from the Personal Radio Steering Group 
(see below). 
If you own or have access to a scanner, (a radio receiver 
often used to listen to police and fire communications), 
program it to scan 462.550 - 462.725 MHz. That will 
reveal what GMRS activity already exists in your area. 
You'll want to know who your airwave “neighbors” are 
before you begin the licensing process, so you can sign 
up for the least-crowded channels. 
A repeater is a relay station located on a tower or tall 
building. Its purpose is to expand the range of hand-held 
or vehicular radios, so you can communicate with a 
family member or friend on the other side of town, even 
though your small radio cannot reach that distance by 
itself. Repeaters aren’t allowed in CB, and cannot be 
used by unlicensed “walkie-talkies,” either. However, 
they are one of GMRS’s major advantages. Repeaters 
are usually set up and operated by local user coopera- 
tives or public-service teams (volunteers who provide 
radio communications in emergencies). They are often 
open to anyone in the area who obeys GMRS regula- 
tions and pays a small usage fee. 
GMRS radios are identical to those manufactured for 
the ultra-high-frequency (UHF) “business” bands. The 
only difference is that the radio is tuned specifically for 
GMRS. Look in the Yellow Pages under “Radio” for 
dealers in your area. Expect to pay $500-$2000 for a 
brand new handheld or vehicle-mounted transceiver. 
Many GMRS users buy used equipment, which is plen- 
tiful and usually cheaper than new. Local GMRS user 
groups are often able to recommend good sources of 
equipment. 
Even though GMRS is classed by federal law as a “per- 
sonal radio service,” the FCC has allowed large com- 
mercial operations to usurp channels in many areas. 
Cellular Telephones 
(A Layman’s Guide) 
Stuart Crump, Jr. 
1985; 146 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
TAB Books, Inc. 
Blue Ridge Summit, PA 17294-0550 
1-800-233-1128 
Cellular Mobile 
Telephone Guide 
A. Seybold & M. Samples 
1986; 202 pp. 
$9.95 
($13.45 postpaid) from: 
Howard Sams & Co. 
4300 West 62nd Street 
Indianapolis, IN 46268 
1-800-428-7267 
Neither of these two books are definitive, but 
there’s not much else reliable. Cellular 
Telephones introduces nicely with lots of dia- 
grams. It will help you determine if you need one. 
Cellular Mobile figures you're already sold on the 
idea but need to demonstrate the cost/benefit ratio 
to feel good about it. It then helps you choose one 
to actually install in your car (all cellular radio is 
car-bound so far). | doubt that anything can save 
you from the sharks selling the gear. 
— Kevin Kelly 
o 
In addition to radio energy being absorbed by trees and 
walls, it also “bounces” around or is reflected by metals, 
certain types of rock, and even dirt and water. Because 
of these bouncing, reflecting, and absorbing effects on 
radio signals, it is not possible to design a system that 
will provide 100% coverage in any given area. If your 
vehicle is parked and you find you cannot access the 
system, perhaps moving the car just a foot or so will 
make a great difference. When pulling up to a stop light 
CELLULAR RADIO 
These fleet-dispatchers, factories, and package-delivery 
services are often intolerant of nonbusiness users of 
GMRS. Fortunately, the FCC has proposed major revi- 
sions to the rules of GMRS which are expected to take 
effect in 1989. These should enhance access to the 
service by individuals and families. 
The not-for-profit Personal Radio Steering Group, Inc. 
(PRSG), was established in 1982 to encourage and 
assist individuals in getting licensed for and using 
GMRS, and to fight against further commercial usurpa- 
tion of GMRS channels. They publish the GMRS Na- 
tional Repeater Guide ($3, 62 pp.); a booklet titled 
“What is the GMRS?” (free for 45-cent SASE, 12 pp.); 
and an informative monthly newsletter called the Per- 
sonal Radio Exchange ($20/year). All are recom- 
mended if you think GMRS may be appropriate for your 
needs. 
That’s what GMRS offers. While it does have limita- 
tions, it’s one of the most accessible and functional of 
all the services that utilize the public airwaves. 
Personal Radio Steering Group, Inc., P.O. Box 2851, 
Ann Arbor, MI 48103; 313/769-1616; Compuserve: 
73016, 163. 
or moving slowly in traffic, you might notice some “fad- 
ing” or loss of signal. 
4 
The carriers have estimated that the average cellular 
telephone bill will be in the neighborhood of $125 to 
$150 per month. 
Sd 
As a general rule, you should remember one thing: 
Whatever you say on a cellular phone can be heard by 
other people. 
—Cellular Mobile Telephone Guide 
MOBILE TELEPHON 
SWITCHING OFFIC 
HOW CELLULAR WORKS. Cellular depends on a network of “cells” 
(indicated on this diagram by the hexagon-shaped segments) that 
cover a city. A low-powered radio transmitter and control equipment 
is located near the center of each cell. This cell-site equipment is 
connected to the “mobile telephone switching office” (MTSO), which 
is the gateway to the regular landline telephone network. When you 
place a car-phone call, the MISO monitors the strength of your 
phone's signal at each of the cell sites near you. The closest site 
handles your call. As you move from one cell to another, your signal 
is automatically “handed off” to the next cell, giving you a clear, 
strong signal. 
—Cellular Telephones 
87 
