USKING, or playing music for spare 
change, predates all types of formal musical 
performance. The Homeric bards, the min- 
strels and troubadours of the Middle Ages, 
all sang for their suppers or other favors. 
This ancient art still thrives in our 
urban centers. 
For modern American buskers, the 
sidewalk or other thoroughfares must 
serve as the stage. Pedestrians vote 
with their feet by passing you by. 
Instant performance feedback — you 
don’t have to toss and turn all night 
waiting to read your reviews. 
How do you become a busker? Can 
you make a living? The following 
advice comes from my own experi- 
ences as an accordion-playing clown: 
DISCOVER YOUR “SPOT” 
It must be right for you, and your act 
right for the area. Most obvious places 
are already crowded, and your added 
presence may not be appreciated by 
those already there. Also, your earn- 
ings will decrease in inverse proportion 
to the number of performers. Look for 
somewhere close to a traditional area 
for sidewalk performers but not in it. 
Join a tourist attraction (which may require an audition) 
or a shopping mall (which requires permission). Good 
money can be made playing outside occasional events 
such as conventions or queues outside a Woody Allen 
film. People already have their hands on their billfolds 
to buy tickets. 
CHOOSE YOUR PROPS & REPERTOIRE 
Your repertoire: It should appeal to as broad a spectrum 
as possible, although obviously you are what you are. 
Playing an instrument may not be enough — maybe a 
little softshoe, maybe “whatever.” Try to include some 
well-known songs. It’s smart to have something that 
little children will find appealing —and nonthreatening. 
Every time a one-year-old bursts into wails, I tried to 
find something new. But finally I had to admit there are 
certain infants who find clowns terrifying. 
Your instrument: Can it compete outdoors with city 
noise? Are you going to invest in a battery-operated 
amplifier? City codes on amplifiers may be a problem. 
Can you sing? That always personalizes an act, although 
in my case I just pumped the squeezebox. I only spoke 
with children, whom I encouraged to beep the bulb hom 
on my belt or, as a special favor, allowed to play on the 
black keys. 
Your clothes or costume: 
recommend a costume. After 
all, you are an entertainer and should look like one. 
Your props: How about playing “to” something or 
someone? Love songs to a pretty doll? To a mannikin 
head on a stand? 
ANALYZE YOUR ACT 
The Long Shot: How do you look from half a block 
away? Is there something about you that will draw a 
person’s interest long distance? Or will it make him 
cross the street to avoid an interaction? 
Ramon in action. Photo by Tom Nixon. 
The Approach: As the potential audience approaches, 
try to establish eye contact and elicit a smile. This is 
tough work, although as a clown] found it fascinating 
and a constant challenge. 
The Stop: Can you stop them in their tracks? You have 
them smiling, they slow down. Now what? 
The Performance: Can your performance keep them 
riveted? Will it have a beginning dnd end or just 
be ongoing? 
The Donation/Collection: If you have an act that draws 
to a close, end the song with a loud flourish and bow. 
Hope for applause while you or your assistant passes the 
hat. If it’s ongoing (and I personally recommend this 
approach), then you must have some easy way people 
can drop some change. The open instrument case is tra- 
ditional. I used a red plastic toy pot on wheels with a 
face. I added a microswitch and glued a basket on top 
with a quarter in the center. The addition of a few 
nickels was enough to trigger the switch and start it 
dancing around, puffing smoke from under its bouncing 
lid. In a few moments it would stall, and children, 
who found it irresistible, would mun back to their 
parents for more change. 
The Exit: Always have a way to escape, either around 
the comer to your car, a local comfort station, a friend’s 
apartment. Remember, if you are in costume, you will 
be on stage all the time you are in public. 
MAKING MONEY 
I used to average $4 to $8 an hour on a sunny day from 
donations. Some ideas for maximizing your potential: 
Photographers: When a tourist aimed his camera, I 
STREET PERFORMING 
turned my back long enough for the sign “Clone The 
Clown — $1.00” to be read. 
Advertisements: Think about renting space on your 
costume. (Once when I was hired to promote a 
restaurant, I watched grey-haired 
ladies’ frowns turn to smiles when 
they approached close enough to read 
the “Eat at So-and-So’s” sign on my 
apron. That sign made me “legiti- 
mate” in their eyes.) 
Business cards: Have some handy. 
People will hire you on the spot for 
parties or promotional ventures. 
HARRASSMENT 
With the police, obviously be polite 
and innocent. With others, you can 
close up shop and move. I had very 
little trouble. Once at a street fair a 
passing drunk threw an insult, another 
time a passing carful of teenagers 
threw an empty milkshake carton. I 
picked it up and put it on my head. 
Instant laughter and good vibrations. 
GOOD HEALTH 
Be prepared for a physical work-out. 
Being young is a definite asset. From 
my current vantage point in my mid- 
fifties, I don’t think I’m up to the sashaying around in 
size sixty tennis shoes which I used to do. Even ten 
years ago I was weary at the end of a full day of clown- 
ing. 
LAST BUT NOT LEAST 
Enjoy yourself! People are amazing and wonderful, and 
busking is a great way to increase your faith in the basic 
goodness of humankind. 
Circus in a Suitcase 
Reg Bolton 
1982; 94 pp. 
$7.95 
($8.95 postpaid) from: 
New Plays 
P.O. Box 273 
Rowayton, CT 06853 
Ladies and gentlemen, step right up! | 
will bring you fame and fortune — in 
your neighborhood. | will give you the 
grand and ageless wisdom of how to 
interrupt busy lives with a little cheer. 
It’s all revealed in this tiny book. Inits B= 
few pages you'll find the essential tech- 
niques you need to begin a glamorous 
life of street performing. Learn how to 
amaze audiences with stilt walking, 
juggling, and acrobatics! Learn the se- 
crets of busking — the ancient gypsy 
art of soliciting tips from bystanders! 
@) 
Teach your school kids self-confti- 
dence; train them to be clowns! Ladies 
and gentlemen, it’s all yours for nine 
bucks! 
— Kevin Kelly 
113 
«© 
Basic Pattern 
for Learner Stilts 
