Mirrorshades 
(The Cyberpunk Anthology) 
Bruce Sterling, Editor 
1986, 256 pp. 
$3.50 
($4.50 postpaid) from: 
Warner Publications Service 
75 Rockefeller Plaza 
New York, NY 10019 
212/686-9820 
or Whole Earth Access 
Cyberpunk is a form of science fiction steeped in 
the philosophy of the Information Age, the age of 
the global village, the personal computer, Cher- 
nobyl, and SDI. Cyberpunk is important because it 
accepts the technological changes of the last quar- 
ter-century and attempts to put them into some 
kind of perspective. Cyberpunk isn’t interested in 
predicting the future; it’s an attempt to find out how 
we can live there. Mirrorshades offers a few fine 
examples of what living there might be like. 
—Richard Kadrey 
4 
Science fiction — at least according to its official dogma 
Cyberpunk 101 
by Pat Murphy 
For a quick intro to cyberpunk, read the Mirrorshades 
anthology. If you’re willing to invest more time, check 
the novels listed here. Cyberpunk, like most successful 
art movements, has spawned a second generation of 
practitioners. This list includes many of the folks who 
helped create and define the movement, as well as some 
relative newcomers. 
Neuromancer 
William Gibson; 1984; 271 pp., $2.95; Ace Books 
Count Zero 
William Gibson; 1984; 246 pp., $2.95; Ace Books 
Mona Lisa Overdrive 
William Gibson; 1988; 260 pp., $18.95; Bantam Books 
Highly recommended. Neuromancer, Gibson's 
first novel captured the attention of the science 
fiction community, winning the Hugo, Nebula, and 
Philip K. Dick awards. In it, Gibson introduces the 
Matrix, a graphic representation of data culled from 
all the computer banks in the human system. Ev- 
ery user who jacks into this “consensual hallucina- 
tion” projects his disembodied consciousness into 
an abstract world of data where battles of life and 
death are fought. Gibson’s second and third books, 
linked to Neuromancer but capable of standing 
alone, have fulfilled the promise of the first book 
and continue the story of the evolution of the Ma- 
trix and how it affects those who enter it. Read any 
one or read them all. 
Mindplayers 
Pat Cadigan; 1987; 288 pp., $2.95; Bantam Books 
A first novel by one of the hottest new science 
fiction short story writers. Mindplayers follows the 
training of “Deadpan” Allie, a mindplayer who goes 
“mind to mind’ with her clients, exploring the inner 
reaches of their delusions. 
— has always been about the impact of technology, But 
times have changed since the comfortable era of Hugo 
Gernsback, when Science was safely enshrined — and 
confined — in an ivory tower. The careless technophilia 
of those days belongs to a vanished, sluggish era, when 
authority still had a comfortable margin of control. 
For the cyberpunks, by stark contrast, technology is 
visceral. It is not the genie of remote Big Science boffins; 
it is pervasive, utterly intimate. Not outside us, but next 
to us. Under our skin; often, inside our minds. 
Technology itself has changed. Not for us the giant 
steam-snorting wonders of the past: the Hoover Dam, 
the Empire State building, the nuclear power plant. 
Eighties tech sticks to the skin, responds to the touch: 
the personal computer, the Sony Walkman, the portable 
telephone, the soft contact lens. 
Certain central themes spring up repeatedly in cy- 
berpunk. The theme of body invasion: prosthetic limbs, 
implanted circuitry, cosmetic surgery, genetic alteration. 
The even more powerful theme of mind invasion: brain- 
computer interfaces, artificial intelligence, neurochemis- 
try — techniques radically redefining the nature of hu- 
manity, the nature of the self. 
—From the Introduction 
When Gravity Fails 
George Alec Effinger; 1987; 256 pp., $2.95, Bantam 
A fast-paced novel of murder and intrigue set in 
the decadent Arab ghetto known as the Budayeen. 
An interesting example of second-generation 
cyberpunk. 
Metrophage 
Richard Kadrey; 1988; 240 pp., $2.95; Ace Books 
Vivid, imaginative writing with flashes of brilliance. 
A gutter-level view of the future city of Los Angeles 
— which authorities have abandoned to smug- 
glers, gangs and a new plague. For reasons he 
does not understand, Jonny Qabbala is pursued by 
an anarchist-surrealist gang, by smuggler lords, by 
the paramilitary, and even by the extraterrestrials 
who have a base on the moon. 
Wetware 
Rudy Rucker;1988; 183 pp., $2.95; Avon Books 
More ideas per chapter than most authors use in 
an entire novel. Sentient robots (called “boppers”) 
find a way to incorporate their software with human 
DNA, creating Manchile, the first “meatbop” 
combination. 
Eclipse / Eclipse Penumbra 
Total Eclipse 
John Shirley; 1988; $2.95 each; Warner Books 
The most political cyberpunk yet. In the not too 
distant future, a neo-fascist movement sweeps 
across Europe, threatening the world with 
all-out war. 
Islands in the Net 
Bruce Sterling; 1988; 352 pp., $17.95; Arbor House 
A thoughtful extrapolation of a future in which 
nuclear weapons have been banned and informa- 
tion is the most valuable commodity. 
APPLIED SCIENCE FICTION 181 
4 |
Science Fiction Magazines 
by Richard Kadrey 
Science fiction is changing fast in the Eighties. The 
following publications will keep you up on all that’s 
interesting and important in the field. Science Fiction 
Eye specializes in fine features and exhaustive inter- 
views with authors; Locus gives you the latest publish- 
ing news from New York; and Science Fiction Guide 
provides an outlet for authors and editors to critque the 
field themselves. 
Science Fiction Eye 
Stephen P. Brown and Daniel J. Steffan, Editors; $7year 
(3 issues) from: Science Fiction Eye, P.O. Box 43244, 
Washington, D.C. 20010-9244 
Science Fiction Guide 
Charles Platt, Editor; $6/year (4 issues) from: Science 
Fiction Guide, 594 Broadway, Rm. 1208, New York, NY 
10012 
Locus 
Charles Brown, Editor; $28/year (12 issues) from: Locus 
Publications, P. O. Box 13305, Oakland, CA 94661 
Stelarc’s “Event For Amplified Body, Laser Eyes And Third Hand” 
from Science Fiction Eye 
Mark V. Ziesing, Bookseller 
All of the books mentioned in Cyberpunk 101, plus 
many other science fiction, fantasy, and small press 
books, are available by mail order. Catalog free from: 
Mark V. Ziesing, Bookseller, P.O. Box 806, 762 Main 
Street (2nd Level), Willimantic, CT 06226; 203/423- 
5836 
