INTERACTIVE LITERATURE 
39 
Interactive Literature 
By David Shaw 
While Stewart Brand was lecturing at MIT, he came 
across a recent innovation: interactive literature. His 
accounts of this new participatory drama prompted me 
to contact the creators. I called Dave Shaw, a graduate 
of MIT and now a research biochemist, who is president 
of the Society of Interactive Literature. We-met in the 
lounge of the Lafayette Hotel in Boston. I taped our 
conversation, which I abridged severely, and Dave 
confirmed for accuracy. 
—Kevin Kelly 
My FRIENDS and I will play almost any kind of 
game. The games we love have a certain amount of 
diplomatic negotiation going on. A player tries to 
influence the outcome of the game by interacting with 
otner players. That’s why chess doesn’t interest us 
much. Chess is one of those games where the better 
player will always beat the worse player, no matter how 
hard one tries to talk him out of it. 
In most games there’s only one correct way to do 
anything. You may have choices, or decisions, to make, 
but they will lead up a decision tree to the same ends, 
game after game. We became interested in role-playing 
games like Dungeons and Dragons because you can 
decide exactly what you want to happen. But we wanted 
a better role-playing system, where characters could 
interact face to face in some sort of real space, in real 
time, where they could actually put a lot of depth into 
the portrayal of the characters. There are groups all over 
the country now that stage murder-mystery weekends. 
It’s almost interactive literature but not quite. You go 
and you watch a bunch of people act something out for 
you, which is not much different from watching a play. 
Or, you get sort of written into the game, but either way, 
what you do is very channeled. We wanted a game 
where you decide reality. 
I found the beginning of what we were looking for 
while I was working at a biology lab. One week during 
a critical lab experiment my co-worker, Walt Freitag, 
disappeared for an entire weekend. I asked where he 
was, and someone said he’s turning a hotel into another 
planet. When he came back, by way of explanation he 
dropped a compendium on my desk. In a hundred pages 
or so it outlined a scenario, rules and characters for a 
whole other world—a process now called interactive 
literature. I jumped in. 
A good example of a successful interactive literature 
game is called Shadows of Sundown. The scenario is a 
post-nuclear-holocaust gathering in which all the 
characters meet at the World Trade Center, or what is 
left of it, to decide what they are going to do about 
putting the country back together again. Different 
factions of players plan, scheme, and plot for very 
different goals. The object of the game is to see where it 
ends up. The largest single game we played had two 
hundred people in it. The games tend to run in hotels 
small enough where we can take over the whole hotel. 
By encouraging characters to wear costumes, it becomes 
immensely involving. Past games have had thieves who 
wore black with leather gloves, and a king with red cape 
and jewelled crown. For a game called Watergate, 
everybody was running around in three-piece suits, 
except the character Hunter Thompson, who had the 
Hawaiian shirt and the bag of drugs. In Sundown, we’ve 
had mutant characters who went so far as to create 
prosthetic makeup. One guy had bits of wires and chips 
hanging out of his jaw; another one painted half of his 
face green, and had stuff rotting off his hands. Costumes 
help enforce a sense of reality. You tend to forget that 
you're in the lobby of the Best Western Inn in Danvers, 
Massachusetts. 
What we try to do, as game masters, is provide detailed 
information as to what kind of character you: are—your 
abilities, power, and goals—but then allow you as much 
freedom as you want as to how you portray yourself. 
You’re given a character packet that has a sheet or two 
descnibing who you are, what you know, and what you 
have. These “blue sheets’’ contain the background you 
should know pertinent to your character, the history of 
your particular neighborhood, and what’s going on in 
your planet, political faction, or corporation. This is 
where the literature aspect of interactive literature 
Games at RECON 3, a fantasy scenario in Boston. 
comes in. The beginnings of these games derive from 
writers interested in storytelling. The literature is in 
writing characters creatively, something that you would 
delight in reading as well as playing. Instead of just 
saying you are X, we put a convincing, even enjoyable, 
story behind it. 
Every character starts out with “items,’’ which are 
usually represented by index cards. These are powers, 
instruments, or resources. You may have an index card 
that says “one .45-caliber automatic, two shots spent 
already.’’ Real-world physical combat is against most of 
our principles, so in combat you don’t actually touch the 
person at all. It’s all conceptual. If you’re shooting at a 
person, bullet and laser beam wounds are represented by 
a little stick-on dot which you put on the opponent’s 
shoulder. 
Information exchanging is really what happens in these 
games. You use information to manipulate events 
toward your particular end. Every character has a series 
of goals. Maybe your goal is to find who has two ounces 
of platinum. Sooner or later you’ 
ll find the guy with two 
ounces of platinum, but then you have to cut some sort 
of deal to get him to give it to you. Sometimes it’s a 
simple exchange of one thing for the other. But there are 
other, more exciting levels. You can be double-crossed, 
or encounter any.of the cliches that you see in detective 
Or suspense movies. 
We have no real idea how a game is going to end up. 
All we know is at what point the game will stop. A 
game may be designed to conclude after players have 
elected the new hierarchy for the local galaxy. But up 
until then what happens is only hinted at in the character 
sheets. The characters have a life of their own. To keep 
things from getting completely chaotic, there are game 
masters who act as arbiters. When things are getting a 
little out of hand, then they step in and tweak the game. 
We’re writing a new game called Fast Forward. It’s 
based within the cyberpunk science fiction genre. In that 
scenario everybody is at some indeterminate time in the 
future in a small chunk of what’s left of the 
metropolitan axis on the East Coast called the Sprawl. 
There are youth gangs, there are companies doing 
corporate warfare, and there’s a bunch of kids hacking a 
big computer network. In the game we’ll have our own 
PC computerized bank in the hotel, a kind of a credit- 
card system, where all the credit transfers for the game 
will occur. It’ll be very susceptible to players’ hacking. 
In fact some players will HAVE to hack around, if their 
characters are hackers. Some characters will play 
artificial intelligences, devoted solely to a particular 
corporation’s interest. 
There’s a book by Larry Niven and Steve Bames, called 
Dream Park, which envisions a giant fantasy park. 
When you fight the monster in its lair, sure enough this 
giant dragon comes out of the cave. And if you’re going 
to shoot it with energy bolts, well, energy bolts come 
out of your gun. We don’t have that kind of technology 
yet. But we do have a friend in Connecticut who’s been 
experimenting with running interactive literature 
outdoors in big parks, and that’s something we’d like to 
- explore next. Contact us at the Society for Interactive 
Literature, 130 Morrison Avenue, Somerville, MA 
02144; 617/623-0133. 
SHADOWS OF SUNDOWN ITEM 
GE "QuickCook" Toaster Oven, 
Broken 
Ae 
an ce® NG 
» 
N\ 
a 
TRANSFERRABLE 
Reading character sheets in a hotel lobby. 
