Structure in 
Nature Is a 
Strategy for 
Design 
Peter Pearce 
1978; 245 pp. 
$12.50 
MIT Press 
Recently out of print. 
Get this book back 
in print! 
The similarity among organic and manufactured 
structures, particularly between crystalline objects 
and buildings, suggests structures are governed by 
a common language. The most common expres- 
sion, made by say a snow flake or a skyscraper, is 
that function is maximized when material is mini- 
mized. Discovering the fundamental vocabulary of 
spatial organization is the theme of this graphic 
book. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Art Forms 
in Nature 
Ernst Haeckel 
1974; 100 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.20 postpaid) from: 
Dover Publications 
Attn.: CRX 
31 East 2nd Street 
Mineola, NY 11501 
516/294-7000 
or Whole Earth Access 
The possibilities of structure in nature. Exemplified 
by marine and micro-organisms rendered in nearly 
hallucinogenic vividness by a turn-of-the-century 
German biologist. There’s no science fiction fan- 
Fig. 9-10. A drawing by D: L. D. Caspar illustrating 
strict equivalence in a shell with icosahedral sym- 
metry constructed from sixty identical left-handed 
units. The three classes of connections in this sur- 
face lattice are represented by the specific bonding 
relations: thumb-to-pinkie = pentamer bond; ring 
finger-to-middle finger = trimer bond; and index 
finger-to-index finger = dimer bond. Any two of 
these classes of bonds would hold the structure to- 
gether. The triangles drawn under the hands define 
equivalent subdivisions defined by the three- and 
fivefold axes at their intersections. 
Twelve spheres packed around a point form the icosahedron (a); and twenty planar triangular 
arrays of spheres around a point form the 20 faces of the icosahedron shell (b,c). 
¢ 
Systems can be envisaged which consist of some mini- 
mum inventory of component types which can be alter- 
natively combined to. yield a great diversity of efficient 
structural form. We call these minimum inventory/maxi- 
mum diversity systems. .. 
. 
The snowflake is a most graphic example in nature of 
the minimum inventory/maximum diversity principle. . 
. 
. 
All planar snow crystals are found to have star-like forms 
with six corners (or subsets thereof). More specifically, 
they have the symmetry of a regular hexagon. However, 
within this six-fold form, no two snowflakes have ever 
been known to be exactly alike. 
tasy that has yet ap- 
proached the baroque 
abundance of 
(extra)terrestrial life 
forms shown here. 
— Kevin Kelly 
[Right] Various species of 
sea-lilies (animals related to 
starfishes and sea-urchins). 
[Far right] Various species of 
fungi of the class Basidiomy- 
cetes. 
Shaping Space: 
A Polyhedral 
Approach 
Marjorie Senechal and 
George Flack, Editors 
1987; 284 pp. 
$49.95 
($52.45 postpaid) from: 
Springer Verlag NY Inc. 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
212/460-1500 
or Whole Earth Access 
Remember solid geometry? The younger of you 
may not; computer programming has largely dis- 
placed that discipline as a teacher of logic. None- 
theless, the field seethes today as biologists and 
chemists seek geometric keys to understanding 
complex physical structure, and mathematicians 
seek improved methods of modeling. 
This book is a look at some recent action, the 1984 
STRUCTURE 
15 
Symmetrical view of a cubic labyrinth section assembled from 90, 
120 degree saddle hexagons, comparing continuous surface mod- 
ules to triangulated modules. 
4 
The formative processes in natural structure are charac- 
teristically governed by least-energy responses. Perhaps 
the simplest expression of this is found in the principle of 
closest packing, a principle which even in its most ele- 
mentary form is common in both animate and inanimate 
worlds. 
Shaping Space conference at Smith College. Like 
many conference-based books, this one is a bit of 
a potpourri. Instructions for easily gluing paper 
models in grade school are right in there with ab- 
struse theoretical dissertations riddled with techno- 
jargon. Also typical of conference-based books is 
the feeling of excitement as sometimes messy 
explorations are presented complete with surprises 
and controversy. Enough introductory geometry 
has been added to make much of the fun acces- 
sible to the motivated newcomer. Unfortunately, 
accessibility denied by the outrageous price is 
another matter. Have your library get it for you. 
—J. Baldwin 
¢ 
In nature where there is regularity, with structures built of 
identical parts, there are likely to be regular plans. Geo- 
metric considerations are always important in these 
plans, and sometimes they predominate. However, 
satisfactory a priori predictions about what in fact hap- 
pens in nature cannot be made. The only way to find out 
is to look. 
