HUMANS, BE WARMED: WE 
é 
Berserkers 
will Be Oropping & 
{8 FB.G. on Your Planet today, 
We arp sorry, But we Weed 4 
we Extra Points. 
inne 
Play-by-Mail Games 
by Kevin Kelly 
These were my instructions: “You are a religious 
fanatic. Your purpose is to convert the entire galaxy to 
your particular point of view. Each of your converts has 
a 10-percent chance of converting the whole of that 
planet. Other players may win back your converts by 
unloading consumer goods on them.” There were 200 
other characters battling for the same worlds I was, and 
Thad to have my next move in the mail, postmarked by 
tomorrow. 
Play-by-mail games are widespread, but hidden by the 
privacy of first class envelopes. The first play-by-mail 
games were probably unfinished games of Chess or Go 
extended by messages between two players. Then as 
other strategy games came along, ones which demanded 
careful moves that could be easily relayed on paper, it 
was natural to try them by post. By the seventies, entire 
stores were devoted to room-size strategy board games, 
a few of which might be played by mail. The stores 
were also incubators for the peculiar teenage 
phenomenon of role-playing games, like Dungeons and 
Dragons. 
Games-by-mail today combine the logical challenge of 
the computer with the intrigue of role playing. Rick 
Loomis, who invented this genre of game-by-mail in 
1970 and now runs Flying Buffalo, the most reliable 
play-by-mail commercial service, describes the general 
procedure: 
“The concept is simple: you send written instructions 
for each turn to the game company. The company 
processes and plots out the results. It reports back your 
new position, and acts as moderator and referee. 
“Your role in the game will vary according to the game 
setting. Thus, you might be a feudal baron, a chieftain 
of a nomadic tribe, or—in the case of Illuminati—the 
wise and crafty leader of a great conspiracy to take over 
the world. 
“For $2 or so, you get a rulebook, background materials, 
and instructions for filling out your tum sheets. At this 
point, games begin to differ in what they demand of 
you. There are games where you have to remember lots 
of codes to enter on your turn-sheet, and games where 
you write out long essays detailing what you want your 
character to do. 
“After processing your turn, the game company will 
send you between one-half and ten pages of information 
about your tum. Most likely it will come back as a 
computer printout that will tell you what happened, 
either in code, in English, or something in between. 
Then you fill out another turnsheet based on these 
results, and send it back to the game company for 
another round. The usual cycle is every two weeks, or 
7 
|\fff 
| 
Z 
every month if you live overseas. (You also can request 
slow or fast modes of the games.) The company charges 
about $3 for each turn. Many have a credit accounting 
system, and debit you each play. You can also buy a 
lifetime “play” for about $500, which allows you to 
keep scheming forever. 
“Games vary a great deal in terms of the amount of 
inter-player communication. Players in ‘no-diplomacy’ 
(or ‘anonymous’) games compete, but are not allowed 
to communicate or make deals with each other outside 
the game. At the other extreme, the biggest ‘full- 
diplomacy’ games have elaborate alliances, player-run 
2 
iti 
gyi 
» 
be] 
Access to Play-By-Mail Games 
It takes a long time to play a PBM game: months, years. 
| have played in three games, each very different from 
another, and recommend all of them. 
Feudal Lords (Graaf Simulations) is a game of 
economic development, diplomatic intrigue, and military 
adventuring set in England, A.D. 801. You begin as a 
Baron of one of 46 fiefdoms and as one of 15 players. 
The computer controls the other 31 fiefs. Your job is to 
build up your fief and acquire control over other fiefs. 
Each fiefdom has basic economic resources; you must 
carefully develop your economy while building your 
military and political strength. Diplomacy is essenitial if 
you want to survive and thrive in this excellent simulation 
of a feudal society. Cost: rules $2.50. Setup $10 
(includes three turns). Turn fee $3. Turn frequency every 
three weeks. Graaf Simulations, 27530 Harper, St. Clair 
Shores, MI 48081. 
Heroic Fantasy (Flying Buffalo): Design a team of 
adventurers and send them into the labyrinth. Guide 
Note that this is not necessarily the map for your game; many games cannot be mapped t 
PLAY-BY-MAIL GAMES 
71 
organizations, and often their own newsletters. Many 
play-by-mail alliances span continents, and occasionally 
generations, and last for years. The games have their 
own histories as well. StarWeb, one of the most 
successful play-by-mail games, has completed over a 
thousand cycles of its interstellar contest. 
“There are about 10,000 players involved in games at 
the moment. Although there has been a big push for the 
last five years urging people to send their tums via 
computer networks like CompuServe or MCI Mail, only 
about 10 percent do so. The computers which run the 
games are invisible, and don’t interest players. Play-by- 
mail gamers like mail. They can forward a message to 
other players with their move, swapping addresses. 
Pretty soon they have a mailbox full of personal, 
passionate mail. 
“One of the fascinating things about play-by-mail 
games is that the backgrounds of the players are so 
diverse. Your allies may include a student, a county 
sheniff, a physicist, and a Shakespearean actor, but you 
won’t often know, or care. 
“The hardest thing to describe about play-by-mail 
gaming is the intensity of the experience. You start out 
wondering why any sensible person would pay three 
dollars to play a game, but within weeks you are 
haunting your mailbox, waiting for your next tum. 
When you are under attack, or you have just sent off a 
tricky maneuver, and you are waiting to see what 
happened, the suspense is tremendous. Will you 
survive? Will your plan work? Where’s that lazy 
postman?”’ 
There are any number of maps we use for StarWeb, Each StarWeb game has a specific map, The map below is only a sample; 
it shows the universe of game SW-555 as the player TERRAN sees it on Turn 6 (see the seth ise 
printout on the facing page). 
vis neatly. 
ERRAN 
jomeworld 
lero 
+ 
them as they explore, overcome adversity, contend with 
the labyrinthian guardians, search for fame, glory, and 
treasure, treasure, treasure. HF has a little of the flavor 
of a “kill and loot” role-playing game, but without the 
social interaction. Cost: rules $2.50. Setup $5. Turn fee 
$2.50. Turn frequency every two weeks, once a month, 
or once a week (electronic mail). 
The classic PBM game, StarWeb (Flying Buffalo) is a 
strategic space game in a network of 255 star systems. 
You begin knowing only one, build spaceship fleets, 
explore connecting systems, capture worlds, locate other 
players and negotiate with them. Try a slow game and 
you will probably meet people worldwide. Cost: rules $2. 
Setup $5. Deposit $5. Turn fee $4. Turn frequency every 
three weeks, once a month (slow game), or once a week 
(electronic mail). Flying Buffalo, Inc., P.O. Box 1467, 
Scottsdale, AZ 85252-1467. 
Play-by-mail game masters come and go with 
great irregularity. For a list of reliable companies, 
send a self-addressed, stamped envelope to Play- 
By-Mail Association (PBMA), 8149 E. Thomas 
Road, Scottsdale, AZ 85252. 
—Bob Albretch 
