106 ACTING 
How to Bea 
Working Actor 
(The Insider's Guide to 
Finding Jobs in Theater, 
Film, and Television) 
Mari Lyn Henry 
and Lynne Rogers 
1986; 302 pp. 
$9.66 
($12.16 postpaid) from: 
Henry Holt & Co. 
115 West 18th Street 
New York, NY 10011 
800/247-3912 
or Whole Earth Access 
Acting is, at best, a chancy way to make one’s 
living. Less than ten percent of professional actors 
earn a decent wage from acting alone. This book is 
written for those who aspire to join that ten 
percent. In their advice to the beginning actor on 
how to launch a career, the authors are realistic 
about the chances of success. But never do they 
lose faith that you, the reader, will be one of the 
lucky minority who bask in the limelight and get 
paid for it, too. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
Respect for Acting 
Uta Hagen with 
Haskel Frankel 
1973; 227 pp. 
$14.95 
($15.70 postpaid) from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Order Deptartment 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
800/257-5755 
or Whole Earth Access 
Uta Hagen’s book is an indispensable companion 
to Stanislavski’s. 
A consummate actress and 
teacher, she offers precise methodologies for 
developing one’s intuitions, perceptions and 
responses, and coaxing open the doors of the 
subconscious as reservoir for solutions to acting 
problems. (Which are real-life problems, no?) 
Her style is passionate, and her standards are 
demandingly high, offered to what is best in world 
theater. 
—Peter Coyote 
¢ 
A great danger is to take the five senses for granted. 
Most people do. Once you become aware that the 
sources which move in on you when you truly touch, 
taste, smell, see and hear are endless, you must also 
realize that self-involvement deadens the senses, and 
vanity slaughters them until you end up playing all alone 
— and meaninglessly. 
4 
Overacting, as it is usually thought of, means that the 
actor is playing to the gallery instead of with the other 
characters on stage. Or that he is hanging onto his own 
sensations or wallowing in false emotion. Underacting is 
primarily an empty imitation of nature, the actor playing 
in the “manner” of naturalness, unrelated to the roots of 
the given reality. 
JOHN ZARCHEN IS IN LOS ANGELES 
After your initial interview with an agent or casting person, an 
effective means of follow-up is the photo-postcard. 
Audition 
(Everything an Actor 
Needs to Know to 
Get the Part) 
Michael Shurtleff 
1978, 1987; 264 pp. 
$4.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
414 East Golf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 
800/223-6834 
or Whole Earth Access 
Michael Shurtleff, casting director for such hits as 
The Graduate, Beckett, The Sound of Music, 
and Pippin, offers a montage of useful observation 
from a life spent discriminating winners from 
losers. Not as technique-oriented as Stanislavski, 
but a well-built compass indicating specific 
direction, and his tone and bits of show-biz lore are 
honest as a good comedian and quite in tune with 
the times. 
—Peter Coyote 
® 
An actor cannot play boredom or he will be boring. He 
must find what it is that the character wants instead of 
the boring condition he’s in, and he must fight for that. | 
use the word fight because the actor must find the 
strongest, most positive goal possible. Nothing less will 
do. 
5 
Humor is not being funny. It is the coin of exchange 
between human beings that makes it possible for us to 
get through the day . 
. 
.. One would sometimes think 
actors are trying to reverse the life process by what they 
do onstage. They take humor out instead of put it in. 
That's what makes acting unlifelike. 
Both of David Varnay’s photographs 
illustrate the imaginative use of accessories. 
The leading man wears a hat. The 
character prop is a marvelous comic touch. 
¢ 
Legitimate talent agents and 
personal managers do not advertise 
in the Want Ad section of any 
newspaper or in the trade papers. 
An ad that solicits “new faces” for 
commercials, for modeling, or for 
films and then implies that experi- 
ence is unnecessary and suggests that high salaries are 
waiting to be paid to the first people who answer the ad, 
is a phony. 
5 
Almost every actor in New York has worked in one or 
more of the productions of Plays for Living, a division of 
the Family Service of America. These productions are 
original half-hour dramas that illustrate a particular family 
stress situation: alcoholism, a child’s inability to read, 
stealing, lying, and the like. The plays are presented to 
parents’ associations or similar groups in school 
auditoriums, churches, or meeting halls throughout New 
York City. . 
.. While the payment received is minimal, 
the experience of adjusting to different theaters and 
audiences is invaluable. Some of the material is 
excellent for audition scenes. 
To learn more about Plays for Living, contact: Family 
Service of America, 44 East Twenty-third Street, New 
York, NY 10016. 
An Actor Prepares 
Constantin Stanislavski 
1964, 1987; 295 pp. 
$18.95 
($20.45 postpaid) from: 
Theatre Arts/Methuen 
29 West 35th Street 
New York, NY 10001 
212/244-3336 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Source Text. Stanislavski’s studies of the 
techniques of the best actors of his day are the 
basis of all subsequent teachings. His dedication 
and worship of nature are an inspiration. 
—Peter Coyote 
¢ 
Never lose yourself on the stage. Always act in your own 
person, as an artist. You can never get away from 
yourself. The moment you lose yourself on the stage 
marks the departure from truly living your part and the 
beginning of exaggerated false acting. Therefore, no 
matter how much you act, how many parts you take, you 
should never allow yourself any exception to the rule of 
using your own feelings. To break that rule is the 
equivalent of killing the person you are portraying, 
because you deprive him of a palpitating, human soul, 
which is the real source of life for a part. 
When you speak to the person who is playing opposite 
you, learn to follow through until you are certain your 
thoughts have penetrated his consciousness. Only after 
you are convinced of this and have added with your eyes 
what could not be put into words, should you continue to 
say the rest of your lines. 
a
