136 
VISUAL LANDSCAPE 
Art & Camouflage 
Roy R. Behrens 
1981; 89 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
North American Review 
Camouflage: to bewitch the visual 
landscape. This out-of-print book is the 
only one that addresses the power of 
camouflage in both organic and manu- 
factured environments. 
According to author Behrens, the leap 
from nature to military was spear- 
headed by modern artists. 
— Kevin Kelly 
5 
Recalling her trips to the war zone, Getrude Stein would 
later remark: “Another thing that interested us 
enormously was how different the camouflage of the 
french was from the camouflage of the germans, and 
then once we came across some very very neat camou- 
How To See 
(A Guide to Reading Our 
Manmade Environment) 
George Nelson 
1977; 233 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
Little, Brown and Company 
200 West Street 
Waltham, MA 02254 
800/343-9204 
or Whole Earth Access 
How many of us actually see our environment? For 
the most part, we’ve trained ourselves to screen 
out much of the world around us: the pollution, the 
billboards, homeless people, etc. How To See is a 
book about rediscovering the world right in front of 
our noses. In dozens of beautiful, and occasionally 
disturbing, photos of manmade landscapes (which 
is where most of live nowadays) we are able to 
rediscover the images and form of our everyday 
lives, from neon signs to church ceilings, from 
billboards to coins, from abstract expressionist 
sculpture to fire hydrants. If we are going to live in 
this world, it makes sense that we should be able 
to see it. If we are 
going to change 
the world for the 
better, it is essen- 
tial, This book is a 
step in that direc- 
tion. 
— Richard Kadrey 
[Suggested by 
Scott Kim] 
flage and it was american. The idea was the ° 
same but as after all it was different nationali- 
ties who did it the difference was inevitable. 
The colour schemes were different, the 
way of placing them was different, it 
made plain the whole theory of art and 
its inevitability. 
In what Hugh B. Cott calls “coincident disrup- 
tive patterning,” strongly contrasting patterns 
cut across the surface of the figure, then coincide 
with similar patterns on other parts of the body. Thus, in 
this example, the top wing appears to be a continuation of 
the lower wing. 
During World War |, convoys of dazzle-painted merchant 
ships were sometimes referred to as a “floating art mu- 
seum,” “a flock of sea-going Easter Eggs,” and “cubist 
painting on a ccollosal scale.” Depicted here are four 
hypothetical camouflaged ships, based on actual World 
War | naval camouflage measures. Such razzle-dazzle was 
intended to confuse German submarine torpedo gunners in 
their critical estimates of the speed, direction and antici- 
pated location of ships. 
. 
ian 
as 
Three different views of man-made landscapes: Left) Very big spaces 
became attainable in the mid-1800’s, when the use of iron and steel, 
often combined with glass, suddenly made superspans possible. 
Take the great old Galleria in Milan, Italy: why would anyone build it? 
Well, it is right alongside the big cathedral square. It rains quite a lot 
in Milan. It also gets very hot in the summer. If you make two streets 
in the form of a cross, pave the floor with mosaics, fill the buildings 
with shops and cafes at ground level, and throw two glass vaults over 
the streets, pleasant things happen. Below left) Junk is not just the 
disorder of discards. It, like everything else, can be read on a variety 
of levels. At the most immediate and superficial, it is unsightly waste 
which immobilizes land that could be put to better use; at another 
level, junk is a resource that becomes more valuable as prime 
mineral sources are depleted. At still another level, junk can be seen 
as an unexpected source of accidental beauty. Below) One really 
does a double take when confronted by Hans Hollein’s photomon- 
tage of a Rolls Royce radiator growing in the financial district of New 
York. Do we see a natural affinity between the Rolls and Wall Street? 
Is the radiator, with its vertical metal fins, virtually indistinguishable 
from the new buildings, telling us something about modern buildings - 
and modern products, both equally devoid of character? 
e
eee
oo 
C
en e
e
