Impro 
Keith Johnstone 
1979, 1988; 208 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
Theatre Arts/Methuen 
29 West 35th Street 
New York, NY 10001 
212/244-3336 
or Whole Earth Access 
cian, an inspired innovator of techniques for 
plugging people into the wellsprings of their own 
imaginations. One of the most useful and provoca- 
tive books | have ever read on theater. 
—Peter Coyote 
5 
There are people who prefer to say “Yes” and there are 
people who prefer to say “No.” Those who say “Yes” are 
rewarded by the adventures they have, and those who 
say “No” are rewarded by the safety they attain. There 
are far more “No” sayers around than “Yes” sayers, but 
you can train one type to behave like the others. .. 
. 
Fred Karno understood this. When he interviewed 
aspiring actors he’d poke his pen into an empty inkwell 
and pretend to flick ink at them. If they mimed being hit 
in the eye, or whatever, he’d engage them. If they looked 
baffled and “blocked” him, then he wouldn't. 
Most theater texts are 
: 
like books on learning to ride a bike. Only after you 
have the hang of it are they valuable. This book is 
a rare peek into genius. Keith Johnstone, associ- 
ated with George Devine and Tony Richardson of 
the Royal Court Theatre in London, creator of the 
Theatre Machine, comes across as a true magi- 
Improvisation for 
¢ 
the Theater 
(A Handbook of Teaching 
and Directing Techniques) 
Viola Spolin 
Set up a large blackboard. Have the class agree on a 
Where. Now have each member of the group call out an 
item to be placed on the floorplan. Draw them in as they 
are called out (illustration 1). When the floorplan is 
1983; 395 pp. 
$10.95 
($11.82 postpaid) from: 
Northwestern University Press 
625 Colfax Street 
Evanston, IL 60201 
312/491-5313 
or Whole Earth Access 
TELEVISION 
RUG 
Widely considered the best source for getting non- 
rote life seething on the stage. Take the chances, 
interact, make it through the lameness into 
originality that is. 
—Stewart Brand 
4 
Hidden Conflict 
DOOR 
ARM 
CHAIR 
Two or more players. 
Where, Who and What agreed upon. Each player takes 
a conflict and states it to himself in the first person 
without letting the other know what it is. 
POINT OF CONCENTRATION: never to verbalize the 
problem (conflict). 
EXAMPLE: Where — kitchen. Who — husband and 
BY pices eerie ieee eestions 
wife. What — breakfast. 
Hidden conflict: Husband — | am not going to 
work. Wife — | want him to leave. I’m expecting 
a visitor. 
POINTS OF OBSERVATION 
1. Let audience know each player’s hidden conflict. 
2. When the hidden conflict is stated, the scene is over. 
3. Variation of this is to write a series of hidden conflicts 
on slips of paper and let actors pick after they have 
decided on Where, Who and What. 
4. HIDDEN CONFLICT forces use of objects and was 
one of the early exercises that started the semantic shift 
from “conflict” to “problem,” thus opening up new doors 
of inquiry. 
Illustration 1: Building the floorplan through suggestions. 
Ei fo\ 
Saye 
IMPROVISATION — 107 
Sd 
‘Try to get your status just a little above or below your 
partner's,’ | said, and | insisted that the gap should be 
minimal. The actors seemed to know exactly what | 
meant and the work was transformed. The scenes 
became ‘authentic’, and actors seemed marvellously 
observant. Suddenly we understood that every inflection 
and movement implies a status, and that no action is 
due to chance, or really ‘motiveless’. It was hysterically 
funny, but at the same time very alarming. All our secret 
manoeuvrings were exposed. If someone asked a 
question we didn’t bother to answer it, we concentrated 
on why it had been asked. No one could make an 
‘innocuous’ remark without everyone instantly grasping 
what lay behind it. Normally we are ‘forbidden’ to see 
status transactions except when there’s a conflict. In 
reality status transactions continue all the time. In the 
park we'll notice the ducks squabbling, but not how 
carefully they keep their distances when they are not. 
completed to everyone's satisfaction, ask the question: 
Who shall we have in the Where? When they have 
decided, select two players to go on stage and play the 
Who. Now ask this question: What are they doing there? 
When this has been agreed upon, show the class how 
the floorplan works. With the help of the two 
players, walking through the scene and using 
the props, the exercise should become clear 
to them. Encourage the rest of the class to 
watch carefully. 
Are they sharing what they are doing with the 
audience? Are they showing and not telling 
us where they are? Do they both handle the 
objects in the same way? Did they walk 
through tables? When the total class is 
involved to the teacher’s satisfaction, then it is 
time to pass out the individual blackboards or 
paper and get to work on the problem. 
Evaluation 
Was the concentration complete or incom- 
plete? Did the team solve the acting problem? 
Did we know Where they were? Did they 
handle all the objects? Did they talk about 
using the objects (“I think I'll close the 
window” etc.), or did they use them? 
Check the actors’ floorplan against what the 
audience observed (illustration 2). In the early 
stages of the exercise, the players will often 
be confused and will not use all the objects. 
As the exercise is repeated, this confusion 
will be overcome. Just coach to use every- 
thing on stage and continue side-coaching to 
refer to their 
blackboards 
as often as 
they wish. 
BOOKCASE 
- 
ra) 
D 
Illustration 2: Audience'’s floorplan drawn from players’ use of Where. 
