ECOLOGY OF MIND 205 
Steps to an Ecology of Mind 
Gregory Bateson 
1972; 541 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House Inc. 
Westminster, MD 21157 
1-800-638-6460 
E 
i 
: 
& 
Mind and Nature 
(A Necessary Unity) 
Out of print 
Bantam Books 
Gregory Bateson is responsible for a number of 
formal discoveries, most notably the “Double Bind” 
theory of schizophrenia. As an anthropologist he 
did pioneer work in New Guinea and (with Marga- 
ret Mead) in Bali. He participated in the Macy 
Foundation meetings that founded the science of 
cybernetics but kept a healthy distance from com- 
puters. He wandered thornily in and out of 
various disciplines—biology, ethnology, linguis- 
tics, epistemology, psychotherapy—and left 
each of them altered with his passage. 
Steps to an Ecology of Mind chronicles that 
journey. It is a collection of all his major papers, 
1935-1971. In recommending the book I’ve 
learned to suggest that it be read backwards. 
Read the broad analyses of mind and ecology 
at the end of the book and then work back to 
see where the premises come from. 
Bateson has informed everything I’ve at- 
tempted since | read Steps in 1972. Through 
him | became convinced that much more of 
whole systems could be understood than | had 
thought, and that much more existed whole- 
somely beyond understanding than | thought— 
that mysticism, mood, ignorance and paradox 
could be rigorous, for instance, and that the 
most potent tool for grasping these essences— 
these infiuence nets—is cybernetics. 
Mind and Nature: A Necessary Unity ad- 
dresses the hidden, though unoccult, dynamics 
of life—the misapprehension of which threat- 
ens to unhorse our civilization. Bateson doesn't 
have all the answers, he just has better ques- 
tions—elegant, mature, embarrassing ques- 
tions that tweak the quick of things. 
One of the themes that emerges is the near iden- 
tity between the process of evolving and the proc- 
ess of learning, and the ongoing responsibility they 
have for each other which includes our responsibil- 
ity, which we have shirked. We shirked it through 
ignorance. Mind and Nature dispels that. 
Bateson’s previous writing—Naven; Communica- 
tions; The Social Matrix of Psychiatry; Balinese 
Character and Steps to an Ecology of Mind— 
has been addressed to various audiences of 
specialists. Mind and Nature is addressed to a 
general readership. It is new thought in an old 
virtue—the use of fine original writing to express 
ideas whose excellence is embedded in the clarity 
of their expression. 
—Stewart Brand 
Sd 
When you narrow down your epistemology and act on 
the premise “what interests me is me, or my organiza- 
tion, or my species,” you chop off consideration of other 
loops of the loop structure. You decide that you want to 
get rid of the by-products of human life and that Lake 
Erie will be a good place to put them. You forget that the 
eco-mental system called Lake Erie is part of your wider 
eco-mental system and that if Lake Erie is driven insane, 
its insanity is incorporated in the larger system of your 
thought and experience. 
5 
Mere purposive rationality unaided by such phenomena 
as art, religion, dream, and the like, is necessarily patho- 
genic and destructive of life; its virulence springs specifi- 
cally from the circumstance that life depends upon 
interlocking circuits of contingency, while conciousness 
can only see such short arcs as human purpose 
may direct. 
¢ 
In no system which shows mental characteristics can 
any part have unilateral control over the whole. In other 
POPULATION 
ao 
Figure 3. The Dynamics of Ecological Crisis 
— From "Steps to an Ecology of Mind" 
Angels Fear 
(Towards an Epistemology: 
of the Sacred) 
Gregory Bateson 
and Mary C. Bateson 
1987; 224 pp. 
$18.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing 
Company 
Front & Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08370 
609/461-6500 
In Angels Fear, Gregory Bateson repeatedly re- 
frames his attempts to understand the ecological 
words, the mental characteristics of the system are 
immanent, not in some part, but in the system as 
a whole. 
— Steps to an Ecology of Mind 
2 
It is a nontrivial matter that we are almost always un- 
aware of trends in our changes of state. There is a 
quasi-scientific fable that if you can get a frog to sit 
quietly in a saucepan of cold water, and if you then raise 
the temperature of the water very slowly and smoothly 
so that there is no moment marked to be the moment at 
which the frog should jump, he will never jump. He will 
get boiled. Is the human species changing its own envi- 
ronment with slowly increasing pollution and rotting its 
mind with slowly deteriorating religion and education in 
such a saucepan? 
¢ 
Ross Ashby long ago pointed out that no system (neither 
computer nor organism) can produce anything new 
unless the system contains some source of the random. 
In the computer, this will be a random-number generator 
which will ensure that the “seeking,” trial-and-error 
moves of the machine will ultimately cover all the possi- 
bilities of the set to be explored. 
4 
| do not believe that the original purpose of the rain 
dance was to make “it” rain. | suspect that that is a 
degenerate misunderstanding of a much more pro- 
found religious need: to affirm membership in what 
we may call the ecological tautology, the eternal 
verities of life and environment. There’s always a 
tendency — almost a need — to vulgarize religion, 
to turn it into entertainment or politics or magic 
or “power.” 
Sd 
It seems to puzzle psychologists that the exploring 
tendencies of a rat cannot be simply extinguished by 
having the rat encounter boxes containing small elec- 
tric shocks. 
A little empathy will show that from the rat’s point of 
view, it is not desirable that he learn the general les- 
son. His experience of a shock upon putting his nose 
into a box indicates to him that he did well to put his 
nose into that box in order to gain the information that 
it contained a shock. In fact, the “purpose” of explora- 
tion Is, not to discover whether exploration is a good 
thing, but to discover information about the explored. 
The larger case is of a totally different nature from that 
of the particular. 
— Mind and Nature 
groundings of and constraints on religion and aes- 
thetics by stepping back to view the next “level” of 
abstraction, then stepping again, and yet again, 
until he eventually backs right off the edge of the 
cliff of hypostatization. Humbled by the abyss 
preventing him from telling too much about the 
holy (which would be made unholy by the telling), 
Gregory begins telling stories about telling stories 
about telling too much. So don’t expect an overt 
resolution of The Mysteries here (even with Mary 
Catherine Bateson’s persistent attempts to gather 
up loose ends). To pursue your own resolution, 
read the stories — they communicate the sacred, 
instead of trying to nail it down. 
— Greg Williams 
