218 GOSSIP 
HE GENESIS OF THIS BOOK lies in a 
low-rent, high-yield Critical Informa- 
tion Service begun twenty years ago by 
Stewart Brand. Conceived as a mobile 
truck store, the idea survived as a port- 
able store printed on newsprint. The 
store, the Whole Earth Catalog, was a 
moveable education for Stewart’s friends who were recon- 
sidering the structure of modern life and building their own 
version of it on communes in the backwoods. The Catalog 
evaluated knowledge needed for these tasks, the kind of 
information which schools never taught: how to start a 
farm, run local politics, teach kids, build a house, make a 
business. It was a short course in innovation. 
It started as a cheaply printed quarterly publication, fed by 
suggestions and recommendations of users until it became 
a series of accumulated books (The Last Whole Earth 
Catalog, 1971; The Whole Earth Epilog, 1974; The Next 
Whole Earth Catalog, 1980; The Whole Earth Software 
Catalog, 1984; The Essential Whole Earth Catalog, 1986) 
not ending with the most recent one, The Electronic Whole 
Earth Catalog (1988, see page 163). 
Along the way Stewart birthed a quarterly magazine more 
modest in its expectations than the Catalog, and more 
successful in chuming up innovation. Called the 
CoEvolu- 
tion Quarterly from 1974 to 1984, the journal changed its 
name to the Whole Earth Review during a mild spell of 
schizophrenia in the midst of the personal computer revo- 
lution. In that computer craziness, Stewart saw something 
deep brewing and set off to investigate. I remained as 
editor of the magazine in his absence. 
His poking about brought Stewart to the busy labs of aman 
whom he had encountered many years before in a pioneer 
book called The Architecture Machine. The author, Nicho- 
las Negroponte, was now heading a world renowned 
research center, the MIT MediaLab, at MIT in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts. Negroponte was “inventing the future” by 
asking the simple question, “what happens if TV, comput- 
ers, and books all merge into one media?” He presented his 
answers as small do-able experiments, or demos. Stewart 
was hanging out writing a book about this den of invention 
(see page 180), asking a simple question himself, “how do 
you hook up the human nervous system to the global 
information network?” 
In parallel, I was exploring my own question, “what is the 
natural history of information?” in Whole Earth Review. 
All three questions spawned this book, Signal. 
In reporting this esoterica, I began to hunger for a practi- 
cal manual. If this is the information age — a time ruled by 
the adroit wielding of information, rather than of materials 
like gold or oil — what are useful information tools? How 
does information work? It proliferates so rapidly, can you 
have too much of it? What utilities do you use to keep it 
under control? 
Ienvisioned a small, quickly produced book similar to the 
original Catalog in its use of immediate processes. The 
book should employ the same tools it reported: electronic 
networks, personal computers, affordable laserprinters, 
Polaroid film, and copy machines. Ideally it should be 
done rapidly with a short cycle from user experience to 
editorial filter to transmission by desktop publishing. It 
should give an overview to frontiers that are still isolated, 
informing other pioneers 
of the breadth of their ter- 
ritory. Ideally, it should 
speak to (and be produced 
by) the new inhabitants — 
young 
mavericks. 
It 
should promote 
trying 
stuff. 
I had a hard time selling 
the idea to publishers. 
(Point Foundation, 
the 
fiscal agent for Whole 
Earth ceased to be a pub- 
lisher of books after the 
Epilog, 1974.) There was 
no classification for what 
I had in mind; there were 
no books already like it, a 
terrible pair of no-nos 
from a marketeer’s view- 
point. The concept was as 
difficult 
to describe as 
information itself. It was 
very expensive 
to re- 
search 
which made 
it 
more unappealing. It was 
a good idea. 
The solution was to try the notion as a special issue of 
Whole Earth Review. Jeanne Carstensen and I waded into 
the swamps of communication technology and came back 
with 288 pages ofnews which Jeanne edited into 144. We 
mailed that issue, SIGNAL, in the fall of 87, soliciting 
feedback and suggestions of where to search for more. 
Reader response in both forms (yeas and more suggestions 
of tools) persuaded me that this was marketable news. 
By winter New York was beginning to think the same. I 
issued our proposal again. We cut our projected expenses 
further by relying more on the Macintosh for such chores 
as proofreading (we cut several of the usual many proofs 
by sending the copy through aspellchecking program) and 
layout. Finally in December, 1987, we got an offer from 
Harmony/Crown Books which we accepted after negotia- 
tion. 
The book began in eamest about the first of the year, 1988. 
First hire was Richard Kadrey, an upcoming cyberpunk 
science fiction author. His first novel had just hit the 
bookstores, unbeknownst to me. Everyone I bumped into, 
including my brother, seemed to be reading his Metroph- 
age (Ace Special, see page 181). It’s gone around the 
office, its plot gabbed about during lunch, so I’ve hardly 
needed to read it. I would guess that there is plenty in the 
research Richard did for Signal to be grist for his next 
novel. 
Second hire was Sally (Sarah) Vandershaf who had a 
suitable background as a researcher for Time-Life Book’s 
series on computers. Sally went from a complete Macin- 
tosh innocent to a desperate Macintosh computer game 
junkie in the span of five months. She figured out it was 
very easy to score free review copies of the games. She de- 
voured every one she could locate and disappeared into 
them for hours every day while trying to locate the Seventh 
Mirror in the dungeon of Trantor or some such. Her 
productivity skyrocketed. She turned in every page ahead 
Holy smoke! After interminable 
hours before the Mac screen, the 
face of Kevin is sucked into his 
computer via the Apple Scanner. 
of time. When she finished 
her section first, she helped 
work on the others. Long live 
the dragons of Shadowgate! 
Sarah Satterlee was the third 
editor hired to create Signal. 
More than anyone else, Sarah 
took to the Macintosh like it 
was her native habitat. I took 
my “I wonder if we can do 
this?” questions to her, and 
she usually had it already fig- 
ured out. Relying on her expe- 
rience as co-producer of the 
Goodfellow Catalog of Won- 
derful Things, a catalog of 
neat handmade crafts from 
around the country, Sarahcast 
Business 
Investigative journalists are taught to follow the 
money to get the real story. Here’s what happens 
to the $16.95 you paid for this book. 
7.20 to Harmony Books 
7.12 to the bookseller 
1.36 to book wholesaler 
.19 to John Brockman Assoc. 
08 to Whole Eart 
16.95 Signal 
John Brockman is Whole Earth’s literary agent. He 
takes the industry standard 15% of our royalties 
for negotiating the nit-picks in the contract. The 
wholesaler’s deal is considerably more straightfor- 
ward. He buys a crate full of the books, inventories 
them, and hopes to diwy them up among the 
booksellers. As middleman he'll siphon off more 
than we'll get. At the end of the line is the book- 
seller who takes a fair chunk of the change for the 
worrisome toil of persuading ordinary folk to come 
in and actually pay for information. Booksellers 
hedge their reasonable risk with the option to re- 
turn unsold books to the publisher. 
The publisher reaps the most because they have 
the most to lose. If this book bores the browsers in 
the stores, Harmony is out the $152,000 they have 
probably invested into it. Beside the cost of printing 
an initial lot of 35,000 books (which costs them 
15% of the cover price, or $87,500) they would 
also lose the $65,000 advance they paid us. On 
the other hand they need only sell 21,100 copies of 
Signal to break even on the printing and advance 
expenses. That doesn’t count what they'll spend 
on promotion (usually figured as 10% of the net 
sn
ae 
tr 
