The Art of the Interview 
by Lloyd Kahn 
It’s best if the person you’re interviewing is as relaxed 
and natural as possible. Usually you’ll go out to do the 
interview, start talking, everything going smoothly, and 
when you take out the tape recorder, things suddenly get 
stiff and formal. For a while I gave up the recorder for 
this reason and used a stenographer’s hand book to take 
notes. This made for a more relaxed conversation, but 
unless you take shorthand, you’ll obviously only be able 
to get the highlights. (If you do forego the tape recorder 
for this method be sure to go home right afterward and 
reconstruct the conversation while it’s fresh in your 
mind.) I’ve since gone back to the machine and in doing 
more than a hundred interviews in recent years, have 
ended up with the following techniques. 
It’s good to get completely comfortable with your re- 
corder so you’re not fidgeting around with switches 
making someone even more nervous. With practice 
you’ll be able to manipulate things without looking. 
Even with the recorder I still use a steno notebook and 
take notes. I put the recorder under the notebook or 
place it as unobtrusively as possible. Taking notes 
focuses attention on your notebook and the conversa- 
tion, rather than the machine. Also, in constructing the 
interview your notes point out highlights. 
I generally have someone else type up the interview but 
I then go over it while listening to the tape and invari- 
ably make a lot of corrections that only I know about 
(because I was there and know the interviewee’s accent 
or manner of speech). 
If there is time to do a series of interviews, I will tell the 
person that I may use the recorder over the phone but 
won’t say each time I call “I’ve just tumed the recorder 
on.” Some of my best material has come over the phone 
when the interviewee is at home (or workplace), com- 
fortable and relaxed. 
The more interviews I do, the less inclined I am to let 
Interviews That Work 
(A Practical Guide for Journalists) 
Shirley Biagi 
1986; 184 pp. 
$17.00 
($19 postpaid) from: 
Wadsworth, Inc. 
7625 Empire Drive 
Florence, KY 41042 
800/354-9706 
Simply, the most useful stuff ever written about 
interviewing others. 
" 
Biagi interviews famous interviewers and gets 
them to talk about how they do interviews. Not 
only do we hear professional conversationalists 
like Ted Koppel telling us what he’s really doing 
when he’s got someone on Nightline, we also pick 
up the techniques Biagi herself accumulated after 
finishing interviews with 40 other interviewing ex- 
perts. 
the interviewee go over the finished product. They often 
fuss unnecessarily or try to make it into an essay or 
testament, or add in things they forgot and in so doing 
eliminate the spontaneity and candor. However, if they 
make a point of having final approval I will go over it 
with them prior to printing the interview. 
RECORDER 
Microcassette recorders are small, unobtrusive and have 
been greatly improved in recent years. A good place to 
get these recorders, as well as mikes, earphones, tran- 
scribing equipment, etc. is Martel Electronics, Inc., in 
Anaheim, CA (mail order). A workhorse microcassette 
model is the Olympus Pearlcorder S911 ($65) which is 
voice activated, has two speeds, and a tape counter. 
Olympus also has a great new Pearlcorder, the model 
$810 ($209), that has extras like one finger slide con- 
trol, tape end alarm, hi/lo microphone sensitivity, two 
tape speeds, and cue marking (you can put cue marks in 
between interviews and the tape will stop at each mark, 
or you can use this function like underlining paragraphs 
on a page—to emphasize good parts of the interview). 
Martel lists some 25 microcassette recorders, from 
Olympus, Sony, Sanyo, and Norelco. From what I 
understand, Olympus recorders are the best. They ap- 
parently invented the microcassette, their warranty and 
service departments are excellent and they do not 
change models often, as does Sony. (One thing the 
Olympus recorders do not have and that I like is a 
needle that moves in response to high volume. If you 
see the needle move, you know the conversation is 
being recorded.) 
Pearicorder 
S810 
MICROCASSETTE 
RECORDER 
(Strategy for a great book: X-ray the familiar. Docu- 
ment the hidden structure in an overly visible proc- 
ess. Man, is that informative). 
I've survived many flutters at both ends of an inter- 
view (more often in the interviewer's seat, fre- 
quently by phone). Yet I didn’t turn a page in this 
remarkable book without learning a new trick or 
two, or three, or five. 
— 
Kevin Kelly 
Sd 
A question longer than three sentences is a speech, not 
a question. Your interviewee will lose interest by the 
fourth sentence, and by that time you will forget your first 
sentence. 
¢ 
To ask a difficult question, separate yourself from the 
interviewee’s critics: “Some critics say that...,” or “Your 
opponents claim that...” Quoting the opposition to the 
INTERVIEWING 117 
MICROPHONE 
All the recorders have a built-in mike, but I also have a 
small mike (Olympus Ultra Sensitive ME-7 — $39) for 
noisy places like restaurants; it will record either omni- 
directionally or can be set for a narrow band of recep- 
tion. I also have a phone mike that fits over the tele- 
phone earpiece, but there’s an intriguing new Sony 
miniature mike that you put inside your ear and it will 
not only record over the phone, but will also record your 
own voice—model MDR-E140C ($15). 
POWER 
I have an A.C. adapter so I can run off an outlet when 
not using the 1.5-volt batteries. I always put in new or 
nearly new batteries when doing an interview or series 
of interviews. There’s nothing like getting home and 
discovering I missed the good stuff because of low 
batteries. 
TRANSCRIBER 
If you’re doing a fair amount of recording you’ll want a 
transcriber with a foot switch. I use a Sony BM-815T 
($350) microtranscriber with a foot switch, so you can 
stop and back up either an automatic number of words 
or as far as you wish. Martel’s catalog lists a variety of 
transcribers. 
TAPE 
I like Sony tapes best (MC-60BM $3 — “for business 
use only”). The cases clip together conveniently and it’s 
easy and clear to write in names and 
dates on the outsides. 
Martel Electronics: catalog $2; 920-A 
East Orangethorpe, Anaheim, CA 92801: 
1-8—0331-5231. 
Olympus sells through authorized local 
dealers; alternatively, you can order 
directly from Olympus Corporation, 145 
Crossways Park, Woodbury, NY 11797; 
516/364-3000. Call for current prices. 
OLYMPUS 
interviewee for a reaction puts you on the side of truth 
rather than on the side of the opposition. 
4 
Sam Donaldson says that one of the simplest questions 
is “Why do you say that?” 
SG 
Set an agenda. Tell the interviewee generally why you 
want to know the information and what you want to 
know. (“I’m writing a profile of Mr. Walters at the Syntex 
Corporation [why] and I'd like to ask you about your 
friendship with him [what].”) This focuses the interview 
and gives you and the interviewee a sense of shared 
purpose. 
¢ 
Some attorneys advise that you mention something 
about the tape recorder to the interviewee while the tape 
is running (“Is this tape recorder in your way?”) so you 
have a record of the person's knowledge that the con- 
versation is being recorded. 
