194. 
CENSORSHIP 
Index on Censorship 
é 
oe 
George Theiner, Editor 
$27.50/year 
(10 issues) from: 
The Fund for Free 
Expression 
36 West 44th Street 
Room 911 
New York, NY 10036 
212/840-9460 
Even if you’re sure the news is being censored, 
' 
you're a prisoner of your own particular brand of 
‘ 
paranoid speculation unless you know exactly 
tual journals such as Argumenty i fakty and in the mass 
what is being left out. This magazine reports on 
Guculanion Ween ysCacuy or) 
stories not covered and why they weren't from all 
In 1982 South Korean journalist Kim Hyong-jang was charged with 
as 
Photocopiers are in short supply in the Soviet Union. 
arson and Communism (both of which he denies) and was sentenced 
parts of the world and political spectrum. The style 
About 1,000 are produced a year, almost all from a 
to death. The only evidence against him was a confession extracted 
is calm, careful, well-researched, and horrifying. 
single factory, and a few hundred more imported 
by torture. His sentence has been commuted to life imprisonment. 
—Anne Herbert. 
(according to the information bulletin NTR — Nauchno- 
rs 
teknicheskaya Revolutsiya —produced by the 
Znaniye “Knowledge” society). NTR noted that Japan 
health authority which employs her and wrote a letter 
Soviet scholarship is being seriously inhibited by a policy 
produces between 1.5 and 2 million photocopiers a year. 
warning her not to speak to the press again. When 
= 
which treats photocopiers as a “class enemy,” Dr. Pyotr 
journalists subsequently asked for her comments after a 
7 
Fedoseyev, Vice-President of the Soviet Academy of 
¢ 
healthy authority meeting about savings in family 
|
Sciences told the Academy's 1987 Annual Assembly. He 
Dr. Gillian Cardy, a 50 year old community medical 
planning services, she told them she was not allowed to 
)
is not the only one to complain; among leading Soviet 
officer was suspended on 16 December after telling a 
speak. After her reasons for not speaking appeared in 
|
scholars who have accused the bureaucracy of trying to 
newspaper that she thought a 30% cut in family planning 
print she was suspended. The British Medical Associa- 
|
“shield” academics from the information they need for 
services in Bath [U.K.] would lead to more unwanted 
tion, which says that her contract states that she can 
their work are sociologist Igor Kon and chemist Vitaly 
pregnancies. Her remarks appeared in the Bath and 
speak to the press on matters of public health, 
wi 
|
Goldansky. (The latter made his views clear in intellec- 
West Evening Chronicle. She was reprimanded by the 
defend her. 
"ast aa 
eeree 
| 
Readers International 
and Connell decided to publish them instead for 
Censorship News 
Catalog free from: 
the English-speaking world. 
Leanne Katz, Editor 
|
Readers International 
$25/year 
|
OEE 
Thus was born Readers International, a unique 
(4 issues) from: 
|
Columbia, LA 71418 
318/649-7288 
enterprise which is half publisher and half book 
National Coalition 
Against Censorship 
club. RI publishes six books a year in hardbound 
footiiesiiacdcncet 
editions on a subscription basis for its members. 
New York. NY 10036 
They also make most of their titles available to 
942/944-9899 
bookstores in paperback editions. In its first three 
Sherman Carroll was working in the world head- 
quarters of Amnesty International in London and 
Dorothy Connell was on the staff of the magazine 
Index on Censorship. They knew firsthand that 
Malo RI has p ublished EDS cael Le EN 
Big censorship — of inter national news, of stories 
there were many extraordinary writers out there 
English from Latin America and the Caribbean, the | on the actions of U.S. and foreign governments — 
who couldn't get published in their own countries. 
Miagle Fast, Asia, Airica,and Easter Europe. 
makes you mad. Butlittle censorship — of your 
Knowing that they couldn't help get these books 
: 
local library, of your children’s school texts — 
published in their writers’ home countries, Carroll 
UWS TREE MEIC EN 
TCI Ine OCI 
affects 
you much more 
directly. The National 
political censorship, this is only occasionally the 
Coalition Against Censorship keeps track of 
direct subject of their works. RI’s titles bear the 
attempts at censorship by high school officials, 
ponderous (and unfortunate) label of being 
Christian fundamentalists, and other neighbors of 
“important” books because of the censorship of 
yours. The $25 membership gets you the 
“Many’s the 
their authors, but | have found them to be of very 
coalition’s newsletter, Censorship News, and 
husband who 
high literary quality (as has the New York Times, 
Books On Trial, a survey of recent legal cases 
goes off in 
which at my last check has reviewed nearly all of 
involving attempts to ban school books (available 
search of 
Ri’s titles). | greatly look forward to each new 
to nonmembers for $5). 
work, only to 
book’s arrival. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
come back 
—Keith Jordan 
alone and 
¢ 
penniless. 
¢ 
A group of parents have filed suit against the Columbia 
The place for 
It so passed that | chanced upon this mullah with a 
County, Florida school board which banned works by 
the farmer is 
questionnaire in his hand. He gave it to me to fill in for 
Chaucer and Aristophanes. 
. 
. 
. “The Miller's Tale,” 
on the farm.” 
him, excusing himself that he did not have his glasses 
written in the fourteenth century, and Lysistrata, written 
with him. Or perhaps it was that he did not have his 
about 400 B.C., were in a state-approved humanities 
—The Land 
mastery of words with him. 
textbook; the books were confiscated from students and 
by Antonio 
placed under lock and key. The superintendent had told 
ke 
| seized a plume and asked his name. “Hassan, Pilgrim 
the school board that “any literature in which God's 
of Blessed Mecca, Exalted Kerbela and Holy Meshed,” 
name is used in vain is not appropriate for use in the 
said he. “Surname?” asked I. “Ever praying,” replied he. 
classroom.” The attack on the book began when a local 
“Religion?” | enquired. “Muslim,” he answered. “Profes- 
minister, filing a complaint, described Lysistrata as 
sion?” | queried. He shuffled about and then whispered 
“pornography and women’s lib.” He said Chaucer's 
in my ear: “Write ‘Muslim’ against that too.” 
“Miller's Tale” was “crass humor,” “inappropriate reading 
—The Ayatollah and | by Hadi Khorsandi 
for anyone.” 
