Cheap(er) Desktop 
Publishing on the IBM 
by Ted Nace 
Using cheap IBM clones as the starting point, tens of 
thousands of people have set up desktop publishing 
systems that cost about half as much and in many ways 
outperform their Macintosh counterparts. 
The overall hardware and software budget for such a 
system runs to about $4000 (about the same as a good 
used car). The bare hardware essentials are an AT clone 
with a hard disk (around $12,000 in late 1988), an HP 
LaserJet II printer (around $1650), a mouse, and soft- 
ware. Software means PageMaker (easiest to learn), or 
Xerox Ventura Publisher (faster than PageMaker and 
more popular), or WordPerfect 5.0 (the first word proc- 
essor with enough graphic and typographic capabilities 
to compete against PageMaker and Ventura). 
The main ingredient is type. Previously, you needed a 
$5000 PostScript laser printer if you wanted access to 
commercial quality fonts in a wide range of sizes. Now, 
a medley of hardware and software products are avail- 
Unibind 11 Desktop Binding 
Information free from Unibind, 2213 Birch 
Street, Vancouver, BC Canada V6H 2S9; 
800/663-6807 
Where’s desktop publishing without desk- 
top binding? At loose ends, that’s where. 
The big desktop publishing revolution 
has created all sorts of needs to hold 
pieces of paper together. What you 
want is a cheap way to bind the pages 
from laser printing into a saleable 
4, book. What most commercial binding 
companies want to sell you is outra- 
geously overpriced 
equipment. 
| have sorted through dozens of different 
binding systems from $5 staplers to $5000 indus- 
trial machines. A couple are 
real jokes. One or two are 
passable. The winner, which ! 
use to bind my self-published 
books, is the new Unibind 11 
system. 
This is a perfect binding sys- 
tem that consists of 11 x 17 
clear vinyl covers with a col- 
ored backing strip. Hot glue is 
able that generate equally good fonts for the cheaper HP 
LaserJet. The most widely used of these new type gen- 
erators is Fontware from Bitstream, which is now being 
given away with WordPerfect, PageMaker, and many 
other products. 
Desktop publishing systems built around IBM clones 
have two drawbacks. The first is the quality of graphics 
software, which still lags behind the Macintosh. The 
second is the fact that it takes more time and effort to 
find and assemble the parts of such a system, sort out 
incompatibilities among components, and master pro- 
grams which — unlike those for the Macintosh — don’t 
conform to a single consistent design. But for those on a 
tight budget, the clone route is the obvious choice. 
Two useful books: 
LaserJet Unlimited, Edition Il, Ted Nace and Michael 
Gardner, 1988; 212 pp., $28.45 postpaid 
Ventura Tips and Tricks (2nd Edition), Ted Nace, 
1988; 286 pp., $26.45 postpaid 
Both from Peachpit Press, 1085 Keith Avenue, Berkeley, 
CA 94708; 415/527-8555 
pre-applied to the cover spine. You put the pages 
into the cover and then pop the works into a 
toaster-style machine for half a minute or so. Then 
you whop the cover onto a cooling plate and set it 
aside to cool. 
Unibind will lend you the Unibind toaster ($270) for 
free if you buy enough covers over a one year 
period. The cost of a cover per book is in the 60 
cents to dollar range. 
— Don Lancaster 
Personal Publishing 
Terry Ulick, Editor 
$24/year 
(12 issues) from: 
Hitchcock Publishing Company 
25W550 Geneva Road 
Wheaton, IL 60188-2292 
312/665-1000 
Publish! 
David Bunnell, Editor 
$39.39/year 
(12 issues) from: 
PCW Communications, Inc. 
501 Second Street 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
800/222-2990 
Having published many issues of a 48-page pro- 
fessional magazine that was produced entirely on 
a Macintosh computer, | can state with assurance 
that it can be done and it can even be fun. But it is 
also a staggering task that dumps the work of 
three individuals into the lap of one overworked 
person. Sometimes empowerment is hard to distin- 
guish from embattlement. 
Two magazines keep things in perspective. 
Personal Publishing is the better of the two, 
DESKTOP PUBLISHING 
The Illustrated 
Handbook of 
Desktop Publishing 
and Typesetting 
Michael L. Kleper 
1987; 770 pp. 
$29.95 
($33.95 postpaid) from: 
Graphic Dimensions 
134 Caversham Woods 
Pittsford, NY 14534-2834 
716/381-3428 
or Whole Earth Access 
What is erroneously called desktop publishing is 
actually desktop typesetting. Much of traditional 
publishing has always been done at a desk, and 
much of the rest still can not be. The only new 
aspect of publishing now taking place at table 
height is the job of formatting text into tiny hard- 
edged letters. It’s an ancient craft with timeless 
principles. For that reason an old-fashioned ency- 
clopedic tome like this one continues to be useful 
in a field that outdates books so fast that normally 
anything this big and heavy would be a dinosaur 
the day it was printed. There’s probably more here 
than the average reader wants to know. I'd guess 
the book’s niche is as a library reference for the 
typesetting regular who needs to know how to 
encapsulate typesetting technology into the 
vernacular of desktop appliances. Not for the 
uninitiated. 
— Kevin Kelly 
A diagram of the innerworkings of the HP LaserJet printer. In many 
respects, it resembles a tabletop plain paper copier 
SSS Interface (1/0 Controller) 
Primary cr 1 
EP Process 
Erase Lamps 
4 
Development 
Registration 
Si 
@ Manual Pick-up 
® 
él 
) 
O 
Separation OUI; aster Corona 
Paper Cassette 
_ $< 
Giemsa repre ee a 
pape 
a 
devoted to helping low-end do-it-yourselfers. It’s 
put out by three people in a Chicago suburb, and is 
itself a Macintosh and Laserwriter production — 
one of the better-looking such publications I’ve 
seen. It’s geared to those who are just starting out 
in personal publishing and is strong on explaining 
and illustrating the fundamentals of the field. Al- 
most entirely staff-written, the magazine is opinion- 
ated, partisan (it favors the Mac over any 
other 
PC), and inspirational. 
Publish! comes from the publishers of MacWorld 
and PC World and follows in their successfully 
slick footsteps. | almost let my subscription lapse 
recently because it is very geared to individuals 
who are responsible for publications and presenta- 
tions in corporate settings, and are far more IBM- 
oriented than | am. But on my last issue they re- 
vamped its design, and there was enough valuable 
information peppered throughout that | renewed. 
— Jay Kinney 
09 
