182 COPYRIGHT 
OU MAY reproduce this material if your recipients 
may also reproduce it. 
Sometime in the last year or so, announcements like the 
one above were being attached to computer network 
messages. Unlike communication in the public domain, 
which anyone can use for whatever commercial pur- 
pose, share-right limits its benefits to those willing to 
share the bounty in the same way they received it. Users 
can take it only if they pass it on with the same promise. 
As Jack Powers, one of the network riders, says, “I like 
this idea of rights which travel together with the mer- 
chandise.” Although share-right was born on the 
networks, I envision it taking root in other decentral- 
ized, highly replicating communications, like Xerox 
publishing, or tape duplicating. Howard Rheingold, a 
host on The Well, calls it “a self-reproducing word virus 
that eats intellectual property.” 
As far as I know, the share-right concept first appeared 
How to 
Copyright Software 
(Everything You 
Need to Copyright 
All Types of Computer 
Programs and Output) 
M.J. Salone 
1984; 232 pp. 
$24.95 
($27.45 postpaid) from: 
Nolo Press 
950 Parker Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
415/549-1976 
or Whole Earth Access 
Laid out in the structured logic of a computer pro- 
gram, this expert how-to knowledge will unfailingly 
lead you through the current copyright maze, a hall 
of mirrors in large part created by the paradoxical 
nature of software (I can give away a thousand 
dollar item and still have it). With engineer preci- 
sion it even covers an all too common error: “Cor- 
recting a Defective Copyright Notice.” This manual 
is a smart investment. 
—KK 
® 
If your code makes perfect sense when separated from 
the existing work, it may qualify as an independent work 
which you can copyright, even if you don’t own the 
original program. This is particularly likely to be true if 
you treat it as an independent work. However, in some 
circumstances, it might still be a derivative work and thus 
not entitled to independent protection. This is because 
the Copyright Act says that one work is derivative of 
another if it is “based” on it. What the term “based on” 
means has been left to the courts to define, and they 
have done so case by case, without establishing any 
clear guidelines. 
Place a copyright notice on your work and register it, 
depositing object code. Object code is probably immune 
from reverse engineering at the Copyright Office be- 
cause that office only allows the examination, not the 
copying, of deposits. In other words, to reverse engineer 
your object code, a pirate would have to be able to do it 
in his head while standing in the Copyright Office. 
6) Share-Right 1988 
by Kevin Kelly 
at the junction of USENET and Stargate, two network 
systems of different politics. USENET, one of the most 
libertarian networks running, distributes and redistrib- 
utes messages in an ad hoc style of complete non-own- 
ership. You don’t post something in USENET without 
expecting it to be copied all over the country, or the 
world. Stargate is a privately run network which beams 
netnews into space by hitching the messages to.an 
unused area of information transmission in the “blink” 
between screens on cable TV broadcasts. It would 
bounce news off a satellite, down to distant pickup sites, 
and into local computers again. I’Il let Erik Fair, a 
USENET engineer, tell the rest of the story: 
“Stargate as originally envisioned was a cheap way to 
send USENET news everywhere by true broadcast. 
The Copyright Book 
(A Practical Guide) 
William S. Strong 
1981, 1984; 223 pp. 
$6.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
MIT Press 
28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
617/253-5251 
or Whole Earth Access 
Not a mere legalistic regurgitation of rules and 
regulations, this is the best book on copyright 
principles for my money. With clear insight, imagi- 
native examples, and hardly a Latin word in sight, 
the author pierces the thicket of riddles we call 
copyright. He’s the only one I’ve read willing to 
tackle thorny issues like parody, private copying, 
and “librarying” — archiving copies for research. 
—KK 
© 
If copyright is like property in land, infringement is like 
moving onto someone’s land without permission, chop- 
ping down trees, mining coal, and stealing water from 
the well. But, unlike boundaries in land, the boundaries 
of a copyright are never clearly defined and frequently 
are not Known until the end of a lawsuit. 
od 
Where lies the boundary between copyright and freedom 
of speech, both of which derive from the Constitution? 
One’s first answer is to say that although a citizen may 
be free to speak, he is not entitled to speak his mind in 
the same words as his neighbor. He is free to speak the 
idea, if you will, but not the expression. However, when 
you consider that “expression” can mean an arrange- 
ment of ideas this answer wears a bit thin. In the end, 
discussions on this subject are generally reduced to 
“Well, we know what we mean by free speech, even if 
we can't put it into words.” 
Sd 
So, in full knowledge of the risks, | will undertake to put 
into words a rule for drawing the line between the First 
Amendment and copyright. My suggestion is this: use of 
copyright work is fair to the extent that the user could not 
otherwise convey or demonstrate his ideas in exercise of 
his freedom of speech. 
Unfortunately, the communication legalities were such 
that they could not claim to be acommon carrier (like. 
telephone companies), and this led directly into Stargate 
becoming a subscriber service instead (like a publisher). 
Stargate has an agreement that prohibits their subscrib- 
ers from redistributing the articles they get from Star- 
gate because, of course, it would erode Stargate’s sub- 
scriber base if they did. 
“Naturally, this caused a bit of a stink on the net, and 
the result was the copyright notices which you see on 
some people’s articles. (‘You can redistribute only if 
your recipients can’), preventing Stargate from transmit- 
ting those articles unless their subscribers can.” 
You, reader, are encouraged to duplicate this message, 
but only if your readers may also duplicate it. 
How to Register a Copyright © and 
Protect Your 
Creative Work 
Robert B. Chickering and 
Susan Hartman 
1980, 1987; 230 pp. 
$10.95 postpaid from: 
Macmillan Publishing Co. 
Attn.: Mail Order Department 
Front & Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
800/257-5755 
or Whole Earth Access 
Which hoops to jump through in the great paper- 
chase. All the forms are covered, steps one, two, 
three, four... . 
—KK 
Sd 
When you convert your idea into a fixed form, it is your 
form of expression — not your concept — that is pro- 
tected. If it seems unfair that someone can use your 
ideas, a simple explanation of the reasoning behind the 
law is that copyright is designed to stimulate, not limit, 
the development of original works. 
o 
Your work is automatically protected by the copyright law 
from the moment it is created — fixed in a tangible 
medium — even though you have not registered it with 
the Copyright Office. You do not have to register a claim 
to copyright in your work in order to reproduce, distrib- 
ute, market, transfer ownership, or license your work. 
HAVE A GOOD 
Day CopyRtGHT = ganANA SPLIT 
copy RIGHT 
OY 
oo 
Shur-eyé 
oC 
OPyRiGHT 
e
ee
eee
ae 
ND 
SANT A 
HT 
wy noon 
sgoness0 copyRi© 
eopyRIon™ @er 
wW 
14 
4 
Toorn prs em 
SMILE 
ist
atl 
ali
nt
pacienc OCEAN 
ABove averr** 
CopyRIGHT 
Copyright 
° 
° 
ANOTHER "NOT- GETTING ~ /T-RIGHT- COPYRIGHT FRIGHT" NIGHT. 
