Magazine Index and Newspaper 
Index on Microfilm 
By far the best method for finding magazine or 
newspaper articles are these self-contained 
microfilm displays 
available for use in 
most libraries (one is 
for magazines one 
for major national 
newspapers). Each 
is the size of a regu- 
lar microfiche reader 
but with only one 
filmstrip roll, which 
the libraries update 
monthly or bi- 
monthly. Unlike the 
awkward multi- 
volume Reader’s 
Guide to 
Periodical Literature that you were introduced 
to in grade school, these are a one-stop index — 
you don't have to keep going from volume to 
volume. In a single fell swoop, you can check 400 
different magazines since 1977, and the major 
national newspapers for your topic — and without 
a computer. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Thomas’ Register of American 
Manufacturers 
Who manufactures those odd things (like watch 
springs, egg packers, or cement burial vaults) you 
never see for sale in the Sears catalog, and where 
do you get the parts and equipment to make them? 
The World Almanac 
Mark S. Hoffman, Editor. $5.45 ($6.45 postpaid) from 
World Almanac Education, 1278 West Ninth Street, 
Cleveland, OH 44113; 800/521-6600 
or Whole Earth Access 
When | was ten | remember being given two thick 
paperbacks: the Johnson Smith Novelty Catalog 
full of spy code rings and x-ray glasses, and the 
1952 World Almanac. | spent a long time leafing 
through each of them, but the World Almanac had 
more staying power. Now as librarian, | find it one 
of the most useful reference works available. The 
print is a bit small, and the maps are just so-so. 
Published each November, current through Octo- 
ber. Use the detailed index in the front, or the one- 
page Quick Reference index in the back. 
—Steve Cisler 
Brewer’s Dictionary of Phrase 
and Fable 
E. Cobham Brewer; revised by Ivor H. Evans, 1981; 
1248 pp. $34.70 ($36.44 postpaid) from Harper & Row, 
Keystone Industrial Park, Scranton, PA 18512; 800/242- 
7737 or Whole Earth Access 
A dangerously seductive encyclopedic reference to 
the maddening obscure phrase, the curiously 
opaque line, and the abstruse story. Brewer’s is. a 
DON’T BUY THESE 
USE THEM AT A LIBRARY 
Thomas’ tells you where to locate any and all. 
Twenty-one volumes, 30,000 pages of fine print, 
zillions of products and tools, it’s the great 
American catalog of everyday technology and 
production. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Encyclopedia of Associations 
First stop for finding any organization or group. 
These are, by and large, accessible groups willing 
to help you research thousands of fast-moving 
topics that books can’t keep up with. Plus hilari- 
ously obscure pursuits like barbed wire collecting. 
— Art Kleiner 
Prompt 
(Predicasts Overview of Markets and Technology) 
Beneath the feathery glamor of newsstand maga- 
Zines and newspapers there is a larger substrata 
world of dreary, factual industry and trade journals. 
They form the bulk of all magazines printed, but 
are ignored by anyone outside their specialty (and 
are difficult to find). Prompt tracks thousands of 
these technical journals, presenting the news of 
industry and commerce in digestible abstracts, 
indexed by field, and referenced to original 
sources. And what sources! There’s no other way | 
would run into: Armor: the Magazine of Mobile 
Warfare; American Dyestuff Reporter; Yugo- 
slavian Electric Power Systems; Drug Store 
News; Meat Outlook; Middle East & African 
Economist; Experimental Vehicle Newsletter; 
World Oil; and so on. Without having to read any 
THESE MAKE HANDY PERSONAL 
REFERENCE TOOLS 
necessity for reading books your grandfather read, 
explaining the vernacular that was part of his lan- 
guage but is, alas, lost to us poor solemn birds. 
This book is guaranteed to bring color to your 
language and whimsy 
to your correspondence. 
— Jan Adkins 
Bartlett’s Familiar Quotations 
John Bartlett, Editor, 1980; 1540 pp. $29.95 ($31.70 
postpaid) from Little, Brown and Company, 200 West 
Street, Waltham, MA 02254; 617/227-0730 
or Whole Earth Access 
Endlessly and instantly entertaining. Its chronologi- 
cal format gives it an order of contemporaries, and 
its brief entries remind a writer of the power in the 
short, terse statement. It has a truly useful index 
and the best cast of characters in publishing. 
—Jan Adkins 
Word Finder 
(The Phonic Key to the Dictionary), Marvin Morrison, 
1987; 386 pp. $11.95 postpaid from Pilot Light, P.O. Box 
305, Stone Mountain, GA 30086-0305; 404/296-3294 
or Whole Earth Access 
Forever solves the problem “how can | look it up 
of them, one gets an informed world view of 
material use and trade by scanning Prompt. 
—Kevin Kelly 
Statistical Abstract of the 
United States 
Tells how many 
of who’s doing what where this 
year. How many unemployed teachers, National 
Park visitors, or new housing projects. Exhaustive 
and inexpensive. 
—Art Kleiner 
Current Biography Yearbook 
They rewrite news stories into biographical 
sketches of anyone who’s been important in the 
news. Especially good for historical biographies, 
back to 1940. 
—Art Kleiner 
Personal Name Index 
(to the New York Times Index) 
Volume 1 (1851-1974) 
Volume 2 (1975-1984, but is completed only 
up to the E’s) 
In two volumes, here’s the easiest way to begin a 
search for contemporary accounts of a notable 
person. The listings will lead you to every New 
York Times’ mention of a person, grouped into a 
single entry under that person’s name, instead of 
under multiple entries for every year. Note that the 
listings refer to references in the 
NYT Index, and 
not to the pages of the paper itself, so you need to 
use this in conjunction with the NYT Index. 
Nonetheless, it beats hunting through a whole 
century of indices to find references to a by-gone 
person of note. 
— Kevin Kelly 
when | don't know how to spell it?” An ingenious 
book, well-conceived and executed. Arranged 
phonetically, and easy to use with a little getting 
used to. Great for writers and those with literacy 
problems. 
— Cliff Martin 
Also forever solves the maddeningly persistent 
problem of deciphering other people’s personal- 
ized license plates. 
— Sarah Satterlee 
The National Directory 
of Addresses and 
Telephone Numbers 
Geri Hardy, Editor, 1988. $45 ($49.50 postpaid) from 
General Information, 401 Park Place, Kirkland, WA 
98033; 800/722-3244 or Whole Earth Access 
The only one-volume, inexpensive, handy desktop 
directory of national addresses and phone num- 
bers I know of. It’s for those daily small hassles like 
when you want to look up the address for the 
Quaker Oats Company and you have no idea 
where they are headquartered. Or you need the 
department of tourism in New Mexico, and don’t 
know what city it’s in. They're all here with 150,000 
other significant address numbers. If you research 
by phone alot you'll save its price in directory 
assistance charges. 
— Kevin Kelly 
REFERENCE TOOLS 
47 
