Propaganda 
by Dick Fugett 
Remember when you were a kid, and you 
first saw the puppeteer’s hands? After 
that, puppets were never quite the same. 
There’s a similar discovery about 
Authorized Truth, the reality presentation 
we’re given by the major media. Here are 
two new publications offering a refreshing © 
dissection of how information choices are 
made for us, as well as investigating the ~ 
slant, the curveball delivery, the deception 
that too often becomes the public 
perception of reality. 
Reading these journals could produce a healthy 
cynicism towards the mainstream media anywhere from 
the USA to the USSR. Healthy because that mainstream 
Propaganda Review 
Marcy Darnovsky, Editor 
$20/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Media Alliance 
Fort Mason, Building D 
San Francisco, CA 94123 
415/441-2557 
Watching a 1984 Reagan TV pitch called “Morning 
in America” so impressed a group of journalists 
that they began investigating how the media is 
used for political goals. The propagandizing of US 
nationalism had surpassed even Orwell's predic- 
tions in its use of language, picture and symbol. 
The group’s initial research was published in the 
Media Alliance Newsletter, the San Francisco 
journalism review. Response was excellent and 
the project has now advanced to a slick quarterly 
magazine. It doesn’t stress the media watchdog 
aspect as much as Extra! does, but looks more 
closely at the foundations of propaganda in 
politics, advertising, and entertainment, with stories 
that are longer and more reflective. 
Like FAIR, the group plans to go beyond publish- 
ing and host public forums that will encourage the 
general population to respond to egregious media 
deeds. Consider the endless letters that outraged 
citizens write to Congresspeople’s computers. That 
same effort directed towards a local newspaper 
editor who reprinted without comment the latest 
government disinformation might be far more 
energy effective. 
Good new ideas come from lean, hungry organiza- 
tions. The Propaganda Review crew is in their 
mouthpiece and its output, Authorized Truth, reflects 
the interests of the people in charge, and those interests 
may not be the same as yours. 
fourth year now, and no one draws a salary yet. 
Besides qualifying for lean and hungry, they’re 
demonstrably dedicated. 
—D.F. 
¢ 
Many terms in political discourse are used in a technical 
sense that's very much divorced from their actual 
meaning, sometimes even the opposite of it. 
Take the “national interest.” The term is commonly used 
as if it’s something good for all of us. If a political leader 
says, “I’m doing this in the national interest,” you're 
supposed to feel good because that's for you. 
But if you look closely, it turns out that the national 
interest is not defined as the interest of the entire 
population. It’s really the interests of small, dominant 
elites who command the resources that enable them to 
control the state — basically, corporate- 
based elites. Correspondingly, the 
“special interests,” of whom we're all 
supposed to be suspicious, really refer to 
the general population. .. 
. 
In both the 1980 and 1984 election, 
Reagan and his handlers identified the 
Democrats as the “party of special 
interests.” That’s bad, because we're all 
against the special interests. But if you 
asked who the special interests were, 
they listed women, poor people, workers, 
young people, old people, ethnic 
minorities — in fact, the vast majority of 
the population. 
One group was not listed among the special interests — 
the corporations. In the campaign rhetoric, that was 
never a special interest, and in their terms that’s right — 
because that’s the national interest. 
Photographer Richard Cross said, “I think photographers sometimes 
very short-sighted in looking at causes. They are interested in the 
more dramatic symptoms of the problem rather than the cause of the 
problem. There's this sort of refusal to look at pattern. | would opt 
much more for telling the story with lots of images and text that tries 
to relate what has been going on in El Salvador with what has been 
going on in the last fifty years in the world — things like the decline of 
neo-colonialism and the rise of independent nation-states.” Cross 
called this picture — of a Salvadoran National Guard sergeant and 
his platoon — “Authority.” 
2 LEADERS DISCUSS 
LONG-RANGE ARMS 
AND AFGHAN WAR 
Is Turning On 
All His Charm But Some Officials Warn 
Rv JOEL BRINKLEY 
191 
Extra! 
Martin A. Lee, Editor 
$24/year 
(9 issues) from: 
FAIR 
666 Broadway 
Suite 400 
New York, NY 10012 
212/475-4640 
Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR) came 
about when founder Jeff Cohen, a former ACLU 
lawyer, decided it was time to quit grumbling about 
media bias and do something instead. What he 
and a few friends created was an organization that 
not only scrutinizes the information we're given as 
“news,” but also responds when gross errors are 
detected. 
Their journal Extra! slices through the baloney in 
commendable fashion. With quotes, pictures, and 
excerpts, it shows exactly how the mass media 
presented a story, then offers its own scrupulously 
documented commentary. Insights and conclu- 
sions are left to the reader. Topics have ranged 
from the Moonie-owned Washington Times to 
Soviet TV coverage of Afghanistan. Compared to 
Propaganda Review this is more immediate stuff, 
analyzing headline stories as opposed to investi- 
gating background and theoretics. Taken together, 
they’re not only complementary, but salutary. 
FAIR also puts on conferences, organizes phone 
tree campaigns, and focuses public attention on 
specific issues, such as Contra aid. This is a 
creative group encouraging new ideas, and I’ve 
been sufficiently impressed to fork over 
my own 
$24 to watch them develop. 
NATIONAL EDITION 
@ 
Late Editien 
New York Teday, carty coeds snc 
atermocn 
‘cmorree, 
party cumny. High 4651. 
Yemerdsy. 
High 60, tow 41. Detaila, page B19 
50 CENTS 
2 LEADERS DISCUSS. | 
272°" 
LONG-RANGE 
ARMS | charmer? 
AND AFGHAN WAR 
Soviet Visitor |AN AIR OF OPTIMISM 
Mixes Charm 
With Venom | 
But Some Officials Warn 
| 
That the Talks Are Still 
JENTHAL 
ies 
ee, 
f 
That the Talks Are Still 
. 
By ANDREW ROS: 
¢ 
The principal media obsession during summit week was 
Gorbachev's public relations acumen, as though the 
Kremlin had somehow cracked a prized American code. 
... A frontpage New York Times (12-10-87) headline 
chimed: “Soviet Visitor is Turning On All His Charm.” 
Curiously, a later Times edition changed this headline to 
“Soviet Visitor Mixes Charm With Venom.” The byline 
changed as well, from Joel Brinkley to Andrew Rosen- 
thal. But the text changed only slightly, with the addition 
of several paragraphs describing Gorbachev's meeting 
with news executives. Extra! contacted The Times 
writers for an explanation. When asked about the 
venom, Rosenthal said that Gorbachev took a hardline 
position at the meeting. “You might think this is a cop- 
out,” he added, “but headlines are written by editors not 
reporters . 
. 
. | didn’t use the word ‘venom’ in my story.” 
