Understanding Media 
(The Extensions of Man) 
Marshall McLuhan 
1964; 318 pp. 
— 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
New American Library 
P.O. Box 999 
Bergenfield, NJ 07621 
or Whole Earth Access 
That media are extensions of our senses — tele- 
phones for ears, computers for mind — and that 
these new media are forces in themselves, the 
main event, regardless of what they bother to say 
(‘the medium is the message”), are insights origi- 
nating from McLuhan. That the media immediately 
engulfed McLuhan’s ideas, and made them at 
once obvious and degrees more consequential, is 
part of his message. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Everybody talks about McLuhan, and everybody 
does something about him, and that makes it sub- 
jectively harder to get at him. He’s got other in- 
sights than what you hear about, so it’s worth the 
trouble to track him down. The primest McLuhan is 
Understanding Media. 
— Stewart Brand 
Turing’s Man 
(Western Culture in 
the Computer Age) 
J. David Bolter 
1984; 264 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
The University of 
North Carolina Press 
P.O. Box 2288 
Chapel Hill, NC 27514 
919/966-3561 
Bolter is a professor of classics and his book is 
about how technology effects the way people think 
about themselves and their society. He notes that 
the Greeks lived with a technology based on craft 
and they likened man to a clay vessel. The advent 
of mechanical clocks brought in the idea of the 
mind as a clock work and the body as an engine. 
This is beginning to be supplanted by the idea of 
human beings as computers. We talk blithely about 
burn out, about information overload, and about 
the system crashing as ways that our minds and 
bodies work. His subject is therefore not artificial 
machine intelligence but artificialized humans. The 
book is a little uneven and to my mind doesn’t go 
far enough in its exploration of the modern meta- 
phors. For example he makes no note that the 
metaphors of the computer are largely drawn from 
usages which were originally military—systems 
crashing, commands, core dumps, etc. Nor does 
he address the effects of the structure of computer 
logics and linguistics which | 
believe will profoundly 
Sd 
The electric light ended the regime of night and day, of 
indoors and out-of-doors. But it is when the light 
encounters already existing patterns of human 
organization that the hybrid energy is released. Cars can 
travel all night, ball players can play all night, and 
windows can be left out of buildings. In a word, the 
message of the electric light is total change. It is pure 
information without any content to restrict its 
transforming and informing power. 
5 
Man the food-gatherer reappears incongruously as 
information-gatherer. In this role, electronic man is no 
less a nomad than his paleolithic ancestors. 
¢ 
Everybody experiences far more than he understands. 
Yet it is experience, rather than understanding, that 
influences behavior, especially in collective matters of 
media and technology, where the individual is almost 
inevitably unaware of their effect upon him. 
¢ 
It is a principal aspect of the electric age that it 
establishes a global network that has much of the 
character of our central nervous system. Our central 
nervous system is not merely an electric network, but it 
constitutes a single unified field of experience. As 
biologists point out, the brain is the interacting place 
where all kinds of impressions and experiences can be 
exchanged and translated, enabling us to react to the 
world as a whole. 
affect the way we think about how people think. 
Still he has made a start. 
Sd 
—Elin Whitney Smith 
Turing set out the nature and theoretical limitations of 
. Pick up a big red block. 
OK. (The system answers 
“OK” when it carries out 
acommand.) 
. Find a block which is taller 
than the one you are holding 
and put it into box. 
BY “IT”, [ASSUME YOU 
MEAN THE BLOCK WHICH 
IS TALLER THAN THE 
ONE | AM HOLDING. 
OK. 
. What does the box contain? 
THE BLUE PYRAMID AND 
THE BLUE BLOCK. 
. How many blocks are not in 
the box? 
FOUR OF THEM. 
. Cana pyramid be sup- 
ported by a block? 
YES. 
6. Cana pyramid support 
a pyramid? 
| DON’T KNOW. 
7. Stack up two pyramids. 
| CAN'T. (The robot tries 
and fails.) 
. Lown blocks which are not 
red, but | don’t own anything 
which supports a pyramid. 
| UNDERSTAND. 
. 
Dol owna box? 
. Dolown anything in the 
box? 
YES, TWO THINGS: THE 
BLUE BLOCK AND THE 
BLUE PYRAMID. 
MEDIA CULTURE 
No Sense of Place 
Joshua Meyrowitz 
1985; 416 pp. 
$9.95 
postpaid from: 
Oxford University Press 
16-00 Pollitt Drive 
Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 
800/451-7556 
or Whole Earth Access 
TV, telephones, and movies explode. The Earth 
shrinks. Social behavior alters. Childhood, a recent 
invention, disappears again. All heroes die. Places 
become events. The rest of this show, hinted at 
early by McLuhan, is rehearsed here in this analyti- 
cal book. The news is not new; the comprehen- 
sible and comprehensive evidence is. 
— Kevin Kelly 
In contrast to print, television does not allow control over 
what is “expressed” along with what is “communicated.” 
Television news programs, for example, cannot escape 
presenting a wide range of personal expressions in 
addition to “objective facts.” Rather than attempting to 
fight this aspect of television news, producers have 
taken the parts of the back region that are difficult to hide 
and thrust them into the show itself. This is especially 
true of local news programs. Backstage expressiveness, 
personal feelings, informal interaction, and ad-libbed 
jokes have become an important aspect of the perform- 
ance. Similarly, many television quiz and talk shows 
have abandoned attempts to hide microphones, camera 
operators, “applause” signs, and cue cards. 
¢ 
We cannot select uses for new media that advance old 
goals without often altering the social systems out of 
which the goals developed. We cannot, for example, 
“buy the wife” a television set to ease her boredom with 
housework without changing her sense of place in the 
world. We cannot use television to “educate” our children 
without simultaneously altering the functions of reading 
and the structure of the family and the school... .We 
cannot have mediated intimacy with our political leaders, 
in the hope of getting closer to greatness, without losing 
a belief in heroes. And if we use media to teach many 
different groups about each other, we also change the 
lines of social association and the perimeters of group 
identities. 
logic machines before a single fully programmable 
computer had been built. What Turing provided was a 
symbolic description, revealing only the logical structure 
and saying nothing about the realization of that structure 
(in relays, vacuum tubes, or transistors). A Turing ma- 
chine, as his description came to be called, exists only 
on paper as a set of specifications, but no computer built 
in the intervening half century has surpassed these 
specifications; all have at most the computing power of 
Turing Machines. 
¢ 
By promising (or threatening) to replace man, the com- 
puter is giving us a new definition of man, as an “infor- 
mation processor,” and of nature, as “information to be 
processed.” 
The world of toy blocks manipulated by the program SHRDLU, more 
an expression of faith in what artificial intelligence may someday 
achieve than a practical result in itself. 
