Gédel, Escher, Bach 
Douglas Hofstadter 
1979; 777 pp. 
$14.95 
($15.95 postpaid) from: 
Vintage Books 
Random House 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
1-800-492-0782 (in MD.) 
1-800-638-6460 
or Whole Earth Access 
The Mind’s | 
Douglas R. Hofstadter 
and Daniel C. Dennett 
1981; 501 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.45 postpaid) from: 
Bantam Books 
2451 South Wolf Road 
Des Plaines, IL 60018 
1-800-223-6834 
or Whole Earth Access 
The subject of the 
first book—and the 
frequent preoccupa- 
tion of its deities, 
mathematician Kurt 
Gédel, artist M.C. 
Escher, composer 
J.S. Bach, and writer 
Lewis Carroll—is 
self-reference, what 
the author calls 
“strange loops” or “tangled hierarchies.” 
It is the 
domain of extreme paradox, where math, art, 
religion (lots of zen in the book, honestly em- 
ployed), and epistemology collide. It is the fearless 
exploration of black holes of the mind. 
Hofstadter set out to make Gédel’s Incomplete- 
ness Theorem accessible to the lay thinker, and 
happily he succeeds in that. Along the way he 
illuminates a world of music, mathematics, 
computer intelligence (and gossip), and philos- 
ophy. The book confirms the suspicion I’ve had for 
years that perhaps the most adventurous and 
fruitful human frontier we have these days is the 
hall of mirrors, Lewis Carroll’s looking glass. 
—Stewart Brand 
a 
Here is a short section of one of the Crab’s Genes, 
turning round and round. When the two DNA strands are 
unraveled and laid out side by side, they read this way: 
... TTTTTTTTTCGAAAAAAAAA . . 
. 
... AAAAAAAAAGCTTTTTITIT... 
Notice that they are the same, only one goes forwards 
while the other goes backwards. This is the defining 
property of the form called “crab canon” in music. It is 
reminiscent of, though a little different from, a palin- 
drome, which is a sentence that reads the same 
backwards and forwards. In molecular biology, such 
segments of DNA are called “palindromes’—a slight 
misnomer, since “crab canon” would be more accurate. 
—Gédel, Escher, Bach 
CRAG CANO 
Hofstadter’s second volume, The Mind’s I, as an 
anthology of essays he co-edits that circles 
through the apparent paradoxes of conscious- 
ness. Round it goes through children, ant colonies, 
and large computers. Parable and fiction lurk in the 
book, about the only animals that can keep a 
tentative grip on the circulating elusiveness of self- 
consciousness. 
—Kevin Kelly 
OQ) sp 
Of course, you can 
make yourself hear 
a familiar language 
as pure uninter- 
preted sound if you 
try very hard, just 
as you can look at 
a windowpane if 
you want; but you 
can’t have your 
cake and eat it 
too—you can’t hear 
the sounds both 
with and without 
their meanings. 
And so most of the 
time people hear 
mainly meaning. 
For those people 
who learn a 
language because 
of enchantment 
with its sounds, this 
is a bit disappoint- 
ing—and yet 
mastery of those 
sounds, even if one 
no longer hears 
them naively, is a beautiful, exhilarating experience. (It 
would be an interesting thing to try to apply this same 
kind of analysis to the hearing of music, where the 
distinction between hearing bare sounds and hearing 
their “meanings” is far less well understood, yet seems 
very real.) 
—The Mina’s Eye 
INFORMATION THEORY 
Grammatical Man 
(Information, Entropy, Language, 
and Life) 
Jeremy Campbell 
1982; 319 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Simon & Schuster/Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
1-800-223-2348 
In the age of information it is shocking that there is 
So little useful information about information — 
how it behaves, what its economics are, indeed, 
what it is. A good book on the subject would have 
to talk about the primary domains of information: 
Evolution, genetics, computer programming, 
entropy, whole systems, and human language. 
This book does. It is the only one to encompass 
the whole natural ecology of information in a 
readable way. 
—Kevin Kelly 
® 
There are probably more than a thousand billion 
synapses in the brain, and each one is a kind of coding 
station, where signals arrive in the form of bursts of 
electrical pulses, so many a second, and are translated 
into chemical signals in the form of very small, separate 
packets. Only if a sufficient number of packets accumu- 
lates Is a critical threshold reached and information sent 
across the synaptic gap. The nerve cell on the other side 
of the gap computes the frequency of the arriving 
packets and, if the frequency is high enough, fires off a 
signal of its own. This is the means of transmission 
along the basic communications channels of the brain. 
The code of the message is changed from electrical to 
chemical and then back again to electrical as it moves 
from one nerve cell to another. Such a procedure allows 
plenty of room for chance to enter, and shows how 
misleading it is to compare the essential processes of 
the brain with those of a computer. 
Sd 
Indeed, Gregory thinks the perceptual system of the 
brain, so active in testing possible answers to a puzzle 
set by what the eye sees, is more “intellectually honest” 
than. the supposedly rational parts of the cerebral cortex. 
Faced with an ambiguous object or drawing, it will not 
fasten on one interpretation and stick to it, unlike the 
rational mind, which will often espouse a particular 
dogma in politics or religion and refuse to relinquish it, 
no matter how impressive the countervailing evidence 
may be. 
@ 
“How can machines reproduce themselves?” Queen 
Christina of Sweden asked her tutor, Descartes, after he 
informed her that the human body, though not the soul, 
could be explained in mechanical terms. Good question. 
Three centuries after the Queen asked it, John von 
Neumann suggested an answer. He proposed that in 
living organisms, and even in machines, there exists a 
“complexity barrier.” Beyond this barrier, where systems 
are of a very high complexity, entirely new principles 
come into play. It is possible, von Neumann said, for a 
machine to make another machine more elaborate than 
itself once it attains a certain level of organization—once 
it breaks through the complexity barrier. Complexity is a 
decisive property. Below the critical level, the power of 
synthesis decays, giving rise to ever simpler systems. 
Above that level, however, the synthesis of more 
elaborate systems, under the right conditions, becomes 
explosive. 
