04 
GOVERNMENT DATABASES 
FEC Direct Access 
Program 
by Robert Horvitz 
All campaigns, parties and political action committees 
(PACs) must file regular reports with the Federal Elec- 
tion Commission disclosing their expenditures and 
sources of income. Most of this information is quickly 
released to the public; it can be politically useful and 
very revealing. Want to know which candidates are get- 
ting money from tobacco companies or the National 
Rifle Association? Who’s renting whose mailing lists? 
How much your opponent is spending on advertising, or 
accumulating in debt? The FEC will gladly share that 
with you. 
To make their disclosure reports even more accessible, 
the FEC has set up a Direct Access Program — basi- 
cally, an online computer service you can dial into 24 
hours/day, 7 days/week. To get into DAP, you first send 
a letter to the FEC Press Office (999 E Street, NW, 
Washington, DC 20463) requesting enrollment in the 
Direct Access Program. Enclose a check for $25 or 
more, made out to the subcontractor, Digital Equipment 
Corp. Access costs $25/hour, payable in advance. A 
customer service rep from the FEC will call back in a 
few days to give you the phone number and a password. 
That’s basically all there is to it. No special software is 
needed — just whatever communications program you 
normally use. 
The data available online is much the same as is found 
at the FEC’s Public Records office in Washington. But 
being electronic, it can be sorted, filtered and merged by 
computer in ways that would be much harder to do 
manually. However, an important data-set not available 
online — which is available at the FEC office — is the 
names of individuals who’ve given more than $500 to a 
campaign. The FEC prohibits use of their campaign 
contributors lists for commercial purposes or for solici- 
tations. That’s why they don’t give them out electroni- 
cally. Note that some contributors lists contain pseudo- 
nyms to make that ban enforceable. 
To save connect-time, FEC publishes a series of indexes 
that are available free on request in small quantities. 
Candidates are identified by name, but PACs have ID 
numbers. You can find the ID for a particular PAC on- 
line, but it’s faster and much cheaper to look it up in the 
index ahead of time. Write to the FEC Press Office for 
descriptions of the indexes available. 
The Congressional Record 
. 
Published each day either House or Senate is in 
session. $1.50 per issue at US Government Bookstores. 
$225/year ($112.50/six months) on paper or $118/year 
on microfiche from Superintendent of Documents, 
Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. 
This is probably the single most useful tool for 
monitoring Congress’ activities. With only a few 
days’ lag, it provides the full text of bills and 
amendments, transcripts of floor debates, tabula- 
tions of votes, conference reports, notice of 
committee and subcommittee meetings, and the 
upcoming legislative calendar. Congressmembers 
can also add “extensions of remarks” — things 
Information U.S.A. 
Matthew Lesko 
1986; 1253 pp. 
$22.95 
($25.95 postpaid) from: 
Viking-Penguin 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 07072 
800/631-3577 
or Whole Earth Access 
This mammoth directory is dedicated to “all federal 
bureaucrats” and makes the point that 710,000 
members of this much maligned profession are 
actually information specialists. The premise at the 
heart of the book is simple: “somewhere in the 
federal government there is a free source of 
information on almost any topic you can think of.” 
A book that opens doors and gives the name, 
address, phone number and price list behind 
each one. 
—Richard Nilsen 
they want on the public record even though they 
weren't said in Congress. While often pretty trivial, 
there are some surprising gems in those pages. 
The Record also regularly lists the office ad- 
dresses and phone numbers of all Senators and 
Representatives, as well as their current committee 
assignments. 
The big problem with the Record is finding some- 
thing in particular. The sequence of topics dealt 
with is apparently arbitrary: a debate on military 
funding can be interrupted for a proclamation on 
Cholesterol Awareness Week, votes on shoe im- 
port duties and an obscure water project, followed 
by a speech countering something the President 
said the previous day. For help in locating the par- 
ticular page where a subject was discussed, check 
the CR Index ($1 per issue from the Government 
Printing Office). These “semi-monthly” indices are 
consolidated at the end of each Congressional 
session, then published as hardbound references. 
For things too recent to have found their way into 
the Index, you can call 202/275-9009, and ask the 
people compiling it for help. 
—Robert Horvitz 
Federal Register 
Published Monday-Friday (except Federal holidays). 
$1.50 per issue at US Government Bookstores. 
Subscriptions $340/year ($170/6 months) on paper or 
$188/year or ($94/6 months) on microfiche from 
Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing 
Office, Washington, DC 20402. 
This is where you find out about new federal regu- 
lations, Executive Orders and proclamations, an- 
nouncements of public meetings, project authoriza- 
tions, licensing decisions, etc. 
Twice each year, in April and October, the “Unified 
Agenda of Federal Regulations” is published in the 
Register. This is to inform people about significant 
rule-making proceedings underway, or scheduled 
for coming months, at all federal agencies. There’s 
also a Cumulative Monthly Index to the Federal 
The Federal 
Database Finder 
(A Directory of Free & 
Fee-Based Databases & 
Files Available from the 
Federal Government) 
$125 postpaid from: 
Information USA 
P.O. Box 15700 
Chevy Chase, MD 20815 
301/657-01200 
‘seco EAEGR 
Did you know there are thousands of computerized 
databases of government information, some of 
them free? If you didn't, it’s not surprising; the gov- 
ernment spends billions on maintaining the data- 
bases, and practically nothing on advertising them. 
The Federal Database Finder lists 4200 of these 
information sources and tells you how to use them 
(you don’t need to have a computer yourself). Mat- 
thew Lesko, who wrote Information U.S.A. (re- 
viewed next door), is also responsible for this 
book, which shares his philosophy that govern- 
ment information should be accessible to all — that 
is, all who can afford The Federal Database 
Finder’s steep price. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
Register. Subscriptions are $22/year from the Su- 
perintendent of Documents, and | highly recom- 
mend getting it — in preference to subscribing to 
the Register itself. Most libraries get the Register, 
so if you read about something in the index that 
you want to look up, you should have no trouble 
finding a copy. Meanwhile, the daily issues fill up 
the library’s shelves, not yours. 
Or, if you’re familiar with the structure of the Code 
of Federal Regulations or need to track changes in 
particular rule-parts, you can subscribe to the List 
of CFR Sections Affected. This is $24/year for 12 
cumulative monthly issues, from the GPO. 
It used to be that any agency decision with legal 
effect had to be published in the Register. How- 
ever, under the Reagan Administration, agencies 
have been given some discretion in what they can 
withhold. The rationale — ostensibly — is to save 
money, staff-time and paperwork; the effect is to 
keep the public uninformed about bureaucratic de- 
cisions. Any Presidential candidate who'll change 
this anti-public policy gets my vote. 
—Robert Horvitz 
Weekly Compilation of 
Presidential Documents 
Published each Monday. $1.75 per issue at US 
Government Bookstores. Subscriptions $64/year 
domestic ($105/year by first-class mail) or $80/year 
foreign from Superintendent of Documents, Government 
Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. 
This is the official record of Presidential state- 
ments: transcripts of speeches and press confer- 
ences, nominations and appointments, proclama- 
tions, etc. Also includes some details about the 
President’s daily schedule, and a cumulative index 
of topics addressed in his public statements (very 
handy). 
—Robert Horvitz 
