The databases and online systems I like best include the 
following: NewsNet, ABJ/INFORM, and PTS PROMT, 
and the many user-created databases on BIX, Compu- 
Serve, Delphi, GEnie, People/Link, The Source, and 
similar systems. Because they have no concept of how 
much information is out there, new and amateur online 
searchers who venture forth in search of one particular 
fact inevitably find themselves drowning in a sea of ir- 
relevant — and expensive — information. 
In the hands of an information professional, several of 
the databases and systems on the above list will yield 
very precise information on a staggering number of 
topics. But because of its unique feel, each is also well- 
suited for the properly coached non-professional as 
well. Proper coaching is simply this: Don’t go into a 
database looking for a specific fact, figure, or statistic. 
Instead, use these resources to get a feel for a situation, 
an industry, a problem, or whatever. 
Think of electronic information as a wonderful source 
of starting points for additional research — names, 
companies, consulting firms, addresses, phone numbers, 
books, and contacts — not as the source of the ultimate 
answer to life, the universe, and everything. After all, 
the point is getting the information you need, not how to 
get it. And given a contact or two, the telephone and the 
typewriter can be as mighty as the communicating 
personal computer. 
NewsNet 
I don’t think I’ve ever signed onto NewsNet and not 
found what I was looking for, something I wish I could 
say about DIALOG, BRS, and other major systems. 
NewsNet has a clean, quick feel to it, with readily avail- 
able help menus. 
To grasp what NewsNet offers, imagine yourself at the 
podium of a room filled with over 300 men and women, 
each of whom is an expert in a particular industry or 
field: Advertising and Marketing, Aerospace, Automo- 
tive, Banking, Chemicals, Education, Electronics and 
Computers, Energy, Environment, Government and 
Regulatory, Health and Hospitals, Politics, Public Rela- 
tions, Social Sciences, Travel and Tourism. You can ask 
these people anything about their respective fields and 
receive an informed answer. That’s NewsNet. 
How To Look It gin Online 
Alfred Glossbrenner 
1987; 486 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
Cash Sales Department 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
212/674-5151 
or Whole Earth Access 
There’s a slippery ocean of online information 
services out there. We recommend that you hire 
Sir Alfred, the wisest old salt sailing on the sea of 
information, to guide you to fruit-laden islands. He 
knows all the shortcuts for navigating through the 
invisible realm of databases, what you'll find when 
you land, how to set your course, and how to 
My Favorite Online Databases 
by Alfred Glossbrenner 
In reality, the database consists of over 350 industry and 
professional newsletters, the type that carry annual print 
edition subscription fees ranging from $150 to $500. 
The publication schedules vary (daily, weekly, or 
monthly), but each newsletter is available online within 
hours of leaving its creator’s personal computer or word 
processor. And, of course, several years’ worth of past 
issues is available for searching as well. 
The key thing about NewsNet is that each newsletter is 
produced by a single individual or small staff of people 
who spend all their working hours focusing on a par- 
ticular field. So if you want to know what’s going on 
with, say, PCBs, dioxin, or other hazardous wastes in 
Ohio, the newsletter called State Regulation Report: 
Toxics in the “Chemical” section can probably tell you. 
Notice that this example fits with what I’ve called get- 
ting a “feel” for a situation. The toxics report could tell 
you the number of tons of dioxin spread in Cuyahoga 
County, Ohio in the last ten years. But it is more likely 
that it will be able to tell you whom to contact in Ohio 
or in Washington, DC to get that information. 
ABI/INFORM and PTS PROMT 
Certainly no single database is appropriate for every 
information need, but the ones that come closest are 
those that deal with magazines. Magazines fill a very 
special role in documenting the life and times of the 
twentieth century. Each issue is like a new volume in a 
never-ending encyclopedia. 
Magazine articles also tend to involve more research 
and consequently offer greater depth than most newspa- 
per articles. So if you want to get a feel for, say, how 
American families are coping with the shortage of 
adequate day care facilities, a list of every magazine 
article done on the subject in the past three years would 
be an ideal source. 
You can whip up such a list in about 90 seconds for 
magazines on ABI/AINFORM or PTS PROMT. Better 
still, when you use one of these databases, you can 
request an informative, fact-packed abstract of each 
article, in addition to its publication particulars. IN- 
FORM covers some 680 publications; PROMT, about 
1500 (with far less overlap between the two than you 
might imagine). But even where both databases cover 
unravel the knotty question of how much it costs. 
He has earned his medals (previous books of 
his we’ve recommended: How to Buy Software, 
The Complete Handbook of Personal Computer 
Communications), and is uncommonly 
trustworthy. 
—Kevin Kelly 
5 
“Document delivery” is the industry's term for the service 
of sending you a photocopy, facsimile, or actual copy of 
the source document from which an online abstract or 
bibcite was derived. It is no exaggeration to say that if 
you are willing to pay for it, you can obtain a copy of 
anything that is referenced online. That includes maga- 
zine articles, conference papers and proceedings, video 
and audio tapes, patents, complete books, chapters from 
books, maps, monographs, charts, architectural dia- 
grams — if it exists anywhere in North America, you can 
have it in your hands tomorrow morning. 
ON-LINE SEARCHING 
the same publication, it can pay you to look at both, 
since their abstracts may offer a slightly different angle. 
Between them they cover all of the major consumer 
magazines (Time, Nation’s Business, Newsweek, etc.). 
But they also cover such publications as PC Tech Jour- 
nal and Byte, Public Finance and Plastics World, 
Solar Age and the Yale Law Journal. In most cases, 
the abstracts are so informative that you won’t need to 
look up the source article. 
NewsNet, Inc.: 945 Haverford Road, Bryn Mawr, PA 
19010; 800/345-1301; 215/527-8030. 
ABI/INFORM: UMI Data Courier, Inc., 620 South Fifth 
Street, Louisville, KY 40202; 800/626-2823 or 502/582- 
4111. 
PTS PROMT: Predicasts, Inc., 11001 Cedar Avenue, 
Cleveland, OH 44106; 800/321-6388 or 216/795-3000. 
Online 
Helen Gordon, Editor 
$85/year 
(six issues) 
Database 
Nancy Garman, Editor 
$85/year 
(six issues) 
Both from: 
Online, Inc. 
11 Tannery Lane 
Weston, CT 06883 
203/227-8466 
Unlike the other publications about information 
brokering on these pages, this pair of professional 
journals tells you how and where to find _infor- 
mation. Online is the more general, discussing de- 
velopments in hardware and on-line information 
services. Database delves into the minute particu- 
lars of specific databanks. Both are the stomping 
grounds for the new breed of electronic librarians. 
— Kevin Kelly 
o 
The power of the single terminal user to acquire and 
manipulate information will be increased to an astonish- 
ing degree. The mere ability to do it will be far overshad- 
owed by the skill needed to sift, condense, organize, and 
ultimately to present information in ways that add value 
to it without diminishing its impact. 
— Online 
Information 
Providers 
No rnore than 
18,000 feet to Y 
a 
= 
Area 
Teleg S Lie 
aa 
ae 
aay 
I Mail 
a 
ey 
TN \ 
NS oe 
rae 
Danville 
Ne 
SS ae 
Danville 
Bulletin Board 
Six primary information providers participated in Project Victoria. 
