26 
WORDS 
They Have A 
The Synonym 
Word for It 
nee 
Howard Rheingold 
db 
g ale 
1988; 224 pp. 
1978; 1361 pp. 
$7.95 
$21.95 
($24.89) postpaid from: 
Rodale Press, Inc. 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
or Whole Earth Access 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
Jeremy P. Tarcher, Inc. 
9110 Sunset Boulavard 
Suite 250 
Los Angeles, CA 90069 
213/273-3274; 
or St. Martin’s Press 
800/221-7945 
The word you have in 
your head is usually not the word you need on the 
page. A thesaurus takes you from here to there. 
Ideally every dictionary would incorporate a 
thesaurus, but since they don't, the best we’ve 
seen (thousand of entries, 1.5 million synonyms, 
organized alphabetically, easiest to use) is not 
Roget's, not Webster's, not even Random 
House’s, but Rodale’s. 
People who learn a second language often 
experience a new part of themselves, a personality 
or set of perceptions coaxed out of them by the 
inner nature of the new language. Howard 
Rheingold’s collection of untranslatable words from 
44 different languages shifts our perceptions from 
as many perspectives. 
Bricoleur (French): A person who constructs things by random 
messing around without following an explicit plan. [noun] 
averted. 
In contemporary American business . 
. 
. 
. a ritual for 
averting conflict is badly needed. 
. 
. 
. Gather at the local 
bar and select a ritual object for clamorous comparison: 
One: 
Pears 
; 
A personal computer? Briefcases? Watches? 
His is a dictionary of both words and ideas. It 
Ma 
z 
works to reveal the cultural blinders with which we 
experience the world. 
—Art Kleiner 
® 
signal, n. 1. sign, marker, guidepost, milepost, 
milestone, landmark, seamark; beacon, light, flag, 
warning light, caution light, flare, rocket; monitor, pilot, 
gauge, meter, instrument; alert, warning, siren, whistle, 
alarm, Archaic. alarum, horn, toot, tocsin, bell; cry, call, 
yell, scream. ... 
7. significant, historic, landmark, important, meaningful, 
momentous, weighty, big, consequential; outstanding, 
extraordinary, extraordinaire, glorious, grand, fantastic, 
fabulous, splended, Inf. super, S/. bang-up; unparalleled, 
nonpareil, unequaled, unprecedented; striking, 
impressive, breathtaking, brilliant; unbelievable, 
amazing, astonishing, Inf. unreal; notable, noteworthy, 
remarkable, unforgettable; exceptional, special, unusual, 
uncommon, unfamiliar, out of the ordinary, unheard of; 
rare, unique, singular, one of a kind. 
Wabi (Japanese): A flawed detail that creates an 
elegant whole. [noun] 
To many people who see the world through modern 
e 
sensibilities, beauty is represented by the kind of 
technological sleekness, smoothness, symmetry, and 
mass-produced perfection that is usually associated with 
a sports car or a skyscraper. A highly prized Japanese 
teacup, which might fetch tens of thousands of dollars 
from a collector, might be very simple, roughly 
fashioned, asymmetrical, and plainly colored. It would 
not be uncommon to find a crack. The crack—the 
beautiful, distinctive, aesthetic flaw that distinguishes the 
spirit of the moment in which this object was created 
from all other moments in eternity—might indeed be the 
very feature that would cause a connoisseur to remark: 
“This pot has wabi.” 
—Jeanne Carstensen 
Bol (Mayan): Stupid in-laws. [noun/adjective] 
The Apaches have the sitike relationship, which is a very 
positive kind of in-law-ship. In Poland, there is a similar 
kind of kinship obligation, which can be regarded in a 
more grudging kind of way, in regard to relations who 
are considered swojak. But the Mayans of southern 
Mexico and Honduras use the same word—bo! 
(BOWL)—to serve for in-laws as well as stupidity! 
Variations of this root word also indicate the kind of 
dazed befuddlement that accompanies a blow on the 
head, or the kind of stupor that can be induced by drugs. 
a 
Biritilulo (Kiriwina, New Guinea): Comparing yams to 
settle disputes. [noun] 
When a member of a group makes the mistake of saying 
the irrevocable “hard words” . 
. 
. to a member of another 
group, the individuals and their associates have the 
choice of combat or the ritualistic comparison of yams. 
The offending individual’s clansmen quickly organize a 
buritilulo; as soon as the loud and frightening but 
ultimately harmless exchange of boasts about the size of 
the opposing clan’s yams is under way, fighting is 
Palatyi (Bantu): A mythical monster that scratches at the door. [noun] 
Standing by 
Words 
Wendell Berry 
1983; 213 pp. 
$10.50 
($12 postpaid) from: 
North Point Press 
850 Talbot Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94706 
415/527-6260 
or Whole Earth Access 
! cannot imagine a better English teacher than 
farmer, essayist, poet, novelist Wendell Berry. 
His writing and his thinking are hard liquor, the 
kind that makes you go “whooh!” with savor and 
respect. His subject this time is language, and 
the model is not far off. His writing (and 
speaking, if you get the chance to hear it) is his 
own best example. 
More even than his works on agriculture (The 
Unsettling of America), this book of essays 
goes to the center of a wide and terrible malaise 
that is obscured from our view by its very size. 
When the land weakens, when the use of 
language weakens, nothing else can be truly 
strong. 
Berry wrote elsewhere once, “/ stand for what | 
stand on.” This book is about that kind of 
precision. 
—Stewart Brand 
¢ 
Two epidemic illnesses of our time—upon both of 
which virtual industries of cures have been 
founded—are the disintegration of communities and 
the disintegration of persons. That these two are 
related (that private loneliness, for instance, will 
necessarily accompany public confusion) is clear 
enough. And | take for granted that most people have 
explored in themselves and their surroundings some 
~ 
of the intricacies of the practical causes and effects; 
most of us, for example, have understood that the 
results are usually bad when people act in social or 
moral isolation, and also when, because of such 
isolation, they fail to act. 
¢ 
One of the uses of poetry is to reveal and articulate 
and make and preserve the necessary connections 
between the domestic and the wild. It is one of the 
ways we may, with the hope of return, get out of our 
minds (our own and other people's) into the world of 
creatures, forms, and powers that we did not make. 
Access to that world is sanity. To be trapped in one’s 
own mind is insanity. To be trapped in another 
person’s mind—by political or technological 
tyranny—is imprisonment. 
