DIRECT MARKETING 
187 
Secrets of 
Successful 
Direct Mail 
Richard V. Benson 
1987; 182 pp. 
$19.95 
($21.45 postpaid) from: 
The Benson Organization, Inc. 
4 Baywood Lane 
The Landings, Skidaway Island 
Savannah, GA 31411 
The modern day Horatio Alger would be selling his 
apples by mail. That’s the message from the count- 
less workshops and books peddling useless “for- 
mulas for success” designed to make you think 
you could be the next millionaire on your block by 
selling your brilliant idea/product through direct 
(read: junk) mail. Benson is not one of these; he’s 
actually an expert, one of the early pioneers of di- 
rect mail, one of a handful who, for better or worse, 
opened the Pandora’s box of junk mail for the 
American public. In this book, Benson recounts his 
successes and failures in his uniquely anecdotal, 
abrasive and opinionated style. And why not? Ben- 
son has sold everything from the Admiral Byrd 
Society’s first public trip around the world from 
north to south ($10,000 per person, please, fora 
total profit of $600,000 on a $5,000 direct mail 
budget) to Ruby Red grapefruit through the mail. 
Naturally, he didn’t always succeed, but he learned 
Successful Direct 
Marketing Methods 
Bob Stone 
1984, 1988; 496 pp. 
$29.95 
($32.35 postpaid) from: 
National Textbook Company 
4255 West Touhy Avenue 
Lincolnwood, IL 60646 
800/323-4900 
or Whole Earth Access 
Here is your standard reference textbook written 
by one of the captains of the industry on the entire 
field of direct marketing, which is that system of 
marketing techniques whereby businesses sell di- 
rectly to you the customer and you the customer 
respond directly to the business without a middle- 
man. These techniques include direct mail (junk 
mail), telemarketing (those unsolicited phone calls 
asking you to buy things), mail order catalogs, ad- 
vertising in print media (“Send one penny plus 
shipping and handling and choose any six hit rec- 
ords or tapes!”) and on radio and TV (“Call 800- 
123-4567 now to order your subscription to 
Whizgig Illustrated; our operators are standing by 
.. .”). Here you'll find definitions of standard con- 
cepts and terms, along with self-quizzes and hypo- 
thetical marketing projects which require you to 
apply the concepts you're learning at the end of 
each chapter. A useful book for beginners who 
want to gain an overview of the field. Don’t expect 
to find much that’s very critical or sophisticated 
here — that’s where you'll need Secrets of Suc- 
cessful Direct Mail (see review this page). But 
from both his successes and failures, and it’s these 
lessons and stories you'll find in this book. Al- 
though he unabashedly distills these lessons into 
thirty-one “Benson’s Rules of Thumb,” the essen- 
tial lesson of the book is that, rules or no rules, you 
have to think about what you’re doing. Then you 
realize that what it takes to succeed with direct 
mail is knowledge of some basic principles, a little 
math, common sense, and luck. Sounds simple, 
doesn’t it? Read on. 
—Richard Schauffler 
e 
Benson’s Rules of Thumb 
In defense of these prejudices: | have a lot of scar tissue 
backing up these principles. | offer them to you with this 
qualifier: They work for me. 
1. A two-time buyer is twice as likely to buy as a one 
time buyer... . 
2. The same product sold at different prices will result in 
the same net income per thousand mailed. 
3. Sweepstakes will improve results by 50% or more. 
4. A credit or bill-me offer will improve results by 50% or 
more. 
5. Tokens or stickers always improve results. 
failure to master the basics is the root of most be- 
ginners’ direct marketing failures, and the basics 
are all here, well-illustrated and indexed. The 
chapter on “Mathematics of Direct Marketing” 
alone will save the novice the cost of the book 
many times over. 
—Richard Schauffler 
© 
Creativity in direct marketing brings recognition, awards, 
and applause. Unfortunately, profitability and success do 
not always accompany the recognition and the awards. 
Some of the attributes of direct marketing that appeal 
most to those who engage in it are the accuracy with 
which profitability can be evaluated and the careful ways 
that a program can be expanded with predetermined fi- 
nancial risk. Accountability and analysis lie at the heart 
of successful direct marketing. 
. 4 
Pilot Project 
You are the advertising manager of a mail order opera- 
tion selling collectibles. You have been successful in 
magazines offering a series of historic plates. You have 
never used newspapers, but now you have a $75,000 
budget to test the medium. 
Outline a newspaper test plan. 
1. Select your test cities. 
2. Will your tests run in the Sunday edition or the week- 
day edition, or both? 
3. What formats will you test — preprints, supplements, 
comics, local TV books, ROP? 
4. What size preprints or ads will you test? 
5. At what time of year will you run your tests? 
6. Memberships renew better than plain subscriptions by 
10% or more. 
7. “Department store” pricing always pays except for 
membership offers. 
8. You can never sell two things at once... 
. 
Nothing works all the time, but ignore any of these rules 
at your own peril. 
DM News 
(The Newspaper of Direct Marketing) 
Ray Schultz, Editor 
$36/year 
or free to qualified 
NEWS 
uM 
subscribers 
i 
Aorbeles 
- 
gyeent 
BE 
1 
; 
: 
eat te OE oe 
we HORE 
ee eee from: 
pa Seth For ee 
es 
fi PO 
19 West 21st Street 
New York, NY 10010 
212/741-2095 
The tabloid of choice for junk mail professionals 
throughout the country. DM News is everything 
you want to know about this way of thinking and 
selling, and more. Here in lurid detail you'll find out 
just how the contras describe themselves in their 
direct mail letters. You'll find yourself siding with 
the knights of the junk mail roundtable in their epic 
attempts to slay the US Postmaster. You'll never 
| 
sleep soundly again or mail another letter after you 
read the the horror stories about the post office 
you always imagined but could never prove: “Tem- 
porary Postal Carrier Canned After Dumping Mail 
in the Garbage.” 
And, for the junk mail profes- 
sional: how-to articles, updates on postal rate in- 
creases, Classifieds and the latest mailing list wars 
(“Owner: Sex Had Nothing to Do with Market Re- 
moval of Swaggart File”). Just when you thought it 
was safe to go back to your mailbox. .. 
. 
—Richard Schauffler 
A continuity newsletter series advising teenage girls how to look bet- 
ter and be more popular and a magazine consisting mostly of adver- 
tisements for sweetened food, which will be mailed free to house- 
holds with children, are two of five new products introduced by Field 
Publications. The magazine is a joint venture with General Foods 
Corp. 
