INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM = 45 
Eight Sneaky Ways To Get Information 
About Groups You’re Investigating 
by Art Kleiner 
1. Make up wildly exaggerated lies. Call the people in 
charge and ask if this rumor you’ve heard is true. When 
they correct it, they may inadvertently tell you some- 
thing less extreme which you needed to know. 
2. Ask their competitors and critics about their sins. Ask 
the people in charge about what their critics said, with- 
out mentioning the critics by name. 
3. Find as many people as you can who work in the 
organization, and talk to them all, even those who annoy 
or intimidate you. Ask all your friends if they know 
anyone. Ask each person if they know others. Be honest 
but mild about who you are and why you’re there. Ask 
each person about what the others said. 
4. Consider the feelings of the people whom you inter- 
view. If your consideration shows, they will tell you 
more. Keep sensitive stuff secret if they specifically ask 
Competitor 
Intelligence 
Leonard M. Fuld 
1985; 479 pp. 
$24.95 
($29.90 postpaid) from: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
1 Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08873 
201/469-4400 
or Whole Earth Access 
A comprehensive guide to sources and methods of 
gathering intelligence when the target is a busi- 
ness. Designed to help corporations forecast and 
X-ray their competition, this manual would be just 
as helpful to environmental groups investigating 
polluters, unions estimating employer profits, or 
peace activists studying military contractors. 
Countless lists of references and information con- 
tacts, with addresses and phone numbers. Tips on 
creative investigation techniques (nothing illegal). 
Illuminating discussion of how economic activity 
produces information that flows, pools, leaks and 
decays. More tools and ideas than you can shake 
a corporate structure at. 
—Robert Horvitz 
5 
Dynamism. This factor states that the more dynamic and 
actively growing an industry, the easier it is to get the 
intelligence you are looking for. Yet you will also find that 
along with the information you receive, you also encoun- 
ter accuracy problems. ... 
Regulation. The more regulated the industry, the higher 
the intelligence access for any one company. Translated 
into more basic terms: The more companies have to 
account for their actions to a government authority, the 
more information they will disclose about their activities. 
¢ 
Public data does not necessarily mean published data. 
There are other sources [of intelligence] that are also 
you to, but ask someone else to confirm it, without 
saying who told you originally. 
5. Read everything you can about the organization — 
especially in-house newsletters or magazines, if you can 
get them, and trade journals. Then call the writer, or 
other sources, and specifically ask about what was 
hinted at in the articles. 
6. Ask questions that require lengthy answers no matter 
what the answer is. 
7. Hang around a place during its daily business and 
observe. Be genuinely interested in the day-to-day 
affairs, or pretend to be, while you’re there. Gossip. 
8. Assume that all your starting assumptions 
will be wrong. 
publicly available, yet are not found in published form. 
They include telephone interviews, counting the number 
of parking spaces in a parking lot, and attending a trade 
show. All the intelligence you discover about your com- 
petitor through these nonpublished sources is still valid 
intelligence and is very much in the public arena. 
5 
Check to see if your target company uses an independ- 
ent trucking fleet. Many smaller manufacturers cannot 
afford to maintain an entire fleet of trucks. Here is where 
truck leasing can play an important role in your search. 
Like corrugated boxes, rented trucks are another inci- 
dental intelligence source. Find the leasing company and 
you may have found a source of production and shipping 
information on your target company. 
Center for Investigative Reporting 
530 Howard Street, 2nd Floor, San Francisco, CA 
94105; 415/543-1200. Bureau at 309 Pennsylvania 
Avenue, SE, Washington, DC 20003; 202/546-1880. 
So you suspect wrongdoing and want to investi- 
gate and do a story. Who do you call first? Maybe 
you should start with the Center for Investigative 
Reporting. A loose association of freelance 
journalists, CIR keeps in touch with information 
sources — public 
The Reporter’s Handbook 
(An Investigator’s Guide to 
Documents and Techniques) 
Investigative Reporters 
and Editors, Inc. 
1983; 504 pp. 
$14 
($15.25 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
College Division 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
800/221-7945 
or Whole Earth Access 
Most good reporting starts when a reporter smells 
that something’s wrong. But you don’t have to be a 
professional reporter to follow your nose. Anyone 
can help stop a local abuse by tracking down the 
facts, but it often means an extended hunt down a 
trail of paper and interviews. This manual for fol- 
lowing that trail is an encyclopedic directory in 
itself, listing dozens of documents, agencies, and 
reports that you might never hear about any other 
way. Put together by a group of experienced inves- 
tigative journalists, it’s one of the few college text- 
books that’s fun to read. 
—Art Kleiner 
¢ 
You're methodically researching your project on the 
ridiculously expensive monorail the county wants to build 
at the new zoo when your editor starts flailing his arms 
and hollering at you. The police desk has an update ona 
bust at a disco last night. It turns out they found in the 
back room 10 bales of marijuana, 20 kilos of cocaine 
and 100,000 Quaaludes. A Columbian citizen was 
among those arrested. 
The cops are cooperating with the Drug Enforcement 
Administration, not with you. They’re giving out nothing 
beyond the arrest sheets. 
There are a hundred unanswered questions: Who owns 
the disco? What else does this person own — land, 
buildings, cars, boats, airplanes? What's the disco 
owner's economic background? Has the owner ever 
been accused of a crime? Does the owner use corpora- 
tions to hide behind? Is there a limited partnership in- 
volved? Who are its investors? How much did they 
invest? Who's in business with this person? 
Public records will answer every one of those questions 
for you in a few hours. 
interest groups, 
concerned officials, 
VIEWPOINTS 
NEWSDAY, 
TUESDAY 
OCTOBER 21 
193€ 
news media — that 
could have the lead 
you’re looking for. 
inactive substances in 
—Sarah 
Vandershaf 
and paint removers are 
highly toxic. 
Hy William Kistner 
and Andiew Porterfield 
T HENEX TE 
TIME you hh up wcan ot batts 
j 
i 
hold Log 
epruy, ccod the label 
carefully 
One of over 100 Investiga- 
You might nore that wo nich wa 99 percent 
ot the product is listed only as 
“Wert ingredicnts, 
Loy 
health ofichuls now warn that these 6e- 
tive stories produced by 
CIR reporters and col- 
eee lemma 
lected in Investigative 
De 
oi 
cnic or see cibatanes 
Reports, available for $6. 
that dissolve, propel ond ullcrwiee enhance the 
uctive ingrediente in pesticides 
Growing evi- 
dence suggests that wome of these substances are 
highly toxic und cause thousands of the pesticide 
pulsoninge reported nationwide each year. 
~ 
Some of these same Wwxie chemicals wre aloo 
found in other consumer 
products, including 
witt remover, spray shoe pulisl and hair uprays. 
Paci control officials, government health work- 
ers und inedical pacchalion have expreesed con- 
vers over the widespread use of 
these compounds, 
‘Inert’ Ingredients in Pesticides Can Kill You 
: 
Cras 
bug sprays; shoe polishes RSs 
Ing three others who tried In vain to help him. A 
rysician from the California Department of 
groundwater. Several Jowe wells this 
year con- 
ealth Services who Investigated London's desth 
tained carbon tetrachloride, a si 
carcino- 
Mowedey (Gary Viabupic 
Toxic inerts aleo ere showing up in the nation's 
