INTELLIGENCE 
196 COUNTERINTELLIGENCE METHODS 
Prime Minister 
NETWORK | MARCH'R7 
Securit 
ecurity 
: 
Inietl\gence 
Cabinet - Domestic 
Seewee 
Intelligence Magazines 
by Robert Horvitz 
There’s a growing number of periodicals available to 
the public reporting on intelligence work. They mun the 
gamut from rabidly hostile to sycophantic, from thor- 
oughly researched to merely polemical to just plain 
fluff. When the stance is critical and the focus is on 
agencies of the country where the publication is based, 
an intelligence magazine may be operating at the edge 
of that society’s tolerance for journalism. 
Among the better critical journals, Intelligence/Parapo- 
litics provides a concise monthly overview of recent 
press reports about covert activities worldwide. Most 
articles are summarized, others are reprinted whole. 
Emphasis is always on facts rather than polemics. Pub- 
lished in Paris, it comes in “full’’ and “summary’”’ edi- 
tions, both available in either French or English. By all 
means get the “full’’ version. 
Philip Agee and Norman Mailer helped the Covert 
Action Information Bulletin get started in 1978. CAIB 
used to make a point of revealing the names and covers 
of currently active CIA agents. Since passage of the In- 
telligence Identities Protection Act in 1982, they’ve 
shied away from naming names, concentrating instead 
External 
Eatelliqgence 
cal, trying to deduce the goals of specific 
7 
propaganda projects by close study of the 
products (or suspected products), Night- 
watch indulges in a lot more free-floating 
paranoia and Cold War speculation. 
Military Intelligence may be the only pe- 
riodical published by an intelligence 
agency about their work that offers 
subscriptions to the public. MI occasion- 
ally has interesting articles, but its main purpose seems 
to be to disseminate innocuous bureaucratic news and 
promote careers in Army intelligence. Published by a 
school that trains soldiers in tactical intelligence for the 
battlefield, the feature articles tend either to be very 
general, or case-studies with parable value. 
The International Journal of Intelligence and 
Counterintelligence reads a bit like an academic jour- 
nal whose reason for existence is to help its authors inch 
closer to tenure. In this instance, the authors are mostly 
either retired from or aspiring to intelligence agency 
employment. We can only hope the CIA’s classified 
journal, Studies in Intelligence, is more trenchant. 
Ministey of 
Foreign Affairs 
and external 
Security comm « 
Government 
Commynications 
Mian stey o€ 
Defence 
Lntelligaence 
d 
= 
Ott Ne 
= 
ei 
ae 
OSS el 
GLE a eas 
SB 
membership haks 
— —— information Flows ——> direchon & control oF flow 
OASIS version 
, March 1987 
From Big SiSter, March 1987. 
events, and while many articles concern British activi- 
ties, its scope is worldwide. Not as rabidly critical as, 
say, Geheim or CAIB, the editor nonetheless hopes “to 
lift some of the official veils which still pointlessly 
conceal the past history of intelligence.”’ 
Livelier still, though much thinner, is the Intelligence 
Quarterly, edited by Michael Speers and Rupert Al- 
lason (a.k.a. Nigel West). Mostly book reviews by 
writers who are themselves well-known authors in the 
field, it includes a set-the-fur-flying column which 
reviews the reviews of intelligence books in other publi- 
on more general detective work, piecing together inci- 
dents and relationships to adduce U.S.-backed covert 
operations or disinformation campaigns. Often as- 
sembled into theme issues, CAIB articles are opinion- 
ated but based on substantial research. 
The National Reporter has similar preoccu- 
pations (it used to be called Counterspy), but 
is not as slick or as well-documented as 
CAIB. 
Germany has a history of state-sponsored 
domestic surveillance, and is now a major 
arena for East-West spy-sparring. The West 
German magazine Geheim (Secret) boldly 
spotlights this murky business. It seems espe- 
cially intent on breaking the covers of Ameri- 
can and Soviet agents (they have a “Naming 
Names’’ column almost every issue), and is 
very critical of its own government. (All 
articles in German.) 
Lobster is a British newsletter on intelli- 
gence, “parapolitics’’ and “state research,”’ 
published somewhat irregularly, with no love 
for British intelligence, the right wing, or 
international conspiracies. (Content varies 
quite a bit from issue to issue, so it’s not easy 
to characterize.) 
Big SISter is a little newsletter published by 
OASIS (Organisation to Abolish the Security 
Intelligence Service), which reports on do- 
mestic spying and foreign involvements of 
New Zealand’s SIS. 
The British newsletter Counterpoint and the 
U.S.-based Nightwatch are likewise specific 
in their focus: Soviet propaganda and disinfor- 
mation. But where Counterpoint is analyti- 
Access Reports/FYI: Harry Ham- 
mitt, editor. $250/year (24 issues) 
from Monitor Publishing Co., 1301 
Pennsylvania Ave./Ste. 1000, Wash- 
ington, D.C. 20004. 
Big SISter: $5/4 issues from OASIS, 
Box 1666, Wellington, Aotearoa NZ. 
Counterpoint: Stanislav Levchenko 
and Peter Deriabin, editors. $35/ 
year (12 issues) from Ickham Publi- 
cations Ltd., Westonhanger, Ickham, 
Canterbury CT3 1QN, England. 
Covert Action Information Bulletin: 
$15/year (3 issues) from Covert Ac- 
tion Information Bulletin, P. O. Box 
50272, Washington, D.C. 20004. 
Espionage: Jackie Lewis, editor/pub- 
lisher. $21/year (6 issues) from Leo 
11 Publications, P. O. Box 1184, 
Teaneck, NJ 07666. 
First Principles: Sally Berman, editor. 
$15/year (6 issues; 
$10/year for 
students) from Center for National 
Security Studies, 122 Maryland Ave. 
NE, Washington, D.C. 20002. 
Foreign Intelligence Literary Scene: 
Marjorie W. Cline and David L. 
Thomas, editors. $25/year (6 issues) 
from National Intelligence Study 
Center, 1800 K Street NW, Wash- 
ington, D.C. 20006. 
Geheim: DM 90/year (4 issues) from: 
Lutticher Strasse 14, 5000 Koln 1, 
Federal Republic of Germany. 
Intelligence and National Security: 
Christopher Andrew, editor. £ 22/ 
Somewhat livelier, though no less academic, is Intelli- 
gence and National Security, published in England. It 
emphasizes historical scholarship rather than current 
cations — “‘a new artform which might make some 
year (3 issues) from Frank Cass & 
Co. Ltd., Gainsborough House, 11 
Gainsborough Road, London E11 
1RS, England. 
Intelligence/Parapolitics: Olivier 
Schmidt, editor. $40/year (12 issues) 
from Association pour la Droite a I’In- 
formation, 16 rue des Ecoles, 75005 
Paris, France. 
Intelligence Quarterly: Michael 
Speers and Nigel West, editors. 
$30/year (4 issues) from Michael 
Speers, P. O. Box 232, Weston, 
VT 05161. 
International Journal of Intelligence 
and Counterintelligence: F. Reese 
Brown, editor-in-chief. $10/issue 
(quarterly) from Intel Publishing 
Group, P. O. Box 188, Stroudsburg, 
PA 18360. 
Lobster: Robin Ramsay, editor. $14/ 
year (4 issues) from Lobster, 17C 
Pearson Avenue, Hull HU5 2SX, 
England. 
Military Intelligence: Capt. William 
A. Purciello, editor. $14/year (4 
issues) from Superintendent of Docu- 
ments, U.S. Government Printing 
Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. 
The National Reporter: John Kelly, 
editor. $13/year (4 issues) from The 
National Reporter, P. O. Box 21279, 
Washington, D.C. 20009. 
Nightwatch: free (12 issues/year) 
from Security and Intelligence Foun- 
dation, 1010 Vermont Avenue/Ste. 
1020, Washington, D.C. 20005. 
small contribution to keeping such reviewers more 
honest — or at least forcing them to read the book in 
question all the way through.”’ 
1Q’s chief competitor is the Foreign Intelli- 
gence Literary Scene, which, with a change 
of editorship in 1986, seems to have lost 
whatever independence it may have had from 
those running the U.S. agencies. Book re- 
views fill most of the pagespace; there’s also a 
regular listing of recent intelligence-related 
articles in the establishment press. 
First Principles fights the impulse to use the 
legitimate need for secrecy in intelligence 
work to conceal illegal activities and thwart 
public oversight. Published by the Center for 
National Security studies, an active FOIA 
litigator, it features ““op-ed’’ type opinion 
essays, policy analyses, and condensed cover- 
age of recent court cases and news articles. 
The biweekly Access Reports/FYI may not 
be affordable by most people, but its detailed 
coverage of legislative activity, federal regula- 
tions and court cases concerning privacy, 
freedom of information, and security classifi- 
cation, is without peer. 
Last and least, we have Espionage, a rela- 
tively new Guccione-backed publication. 
According to one of their subscription adds, 
it’s “the only international espionage maga- 
zine in existence!’’ Which should give you an 
idea of the quality of journalism it offers. 
Actually, it’s mainly short fiction pieces and 
reviews of spy novels, with rehashes of last 
year’s newspaper spy sensations mixed in for 
“realism.’’ Definitely NOT recommended. 
stl
a 
gh 
nat 
SO 
i 
i 
til 
