The Body Electric 
Robert O. Becker, M.D., 
and Gary Selden 
1985; 364 pp. 
$8.95 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
William Morrow & Co. 
Wilmor Warehouse 
39 Plymouth Street 
Fairfield, NJ 07006 
201/227-7200 
or Whole Earth Access 
This book is almost as annoying as it is astound- 
ing. Robert Becker is an orthopedic surgeon who 
spent most of his career studying bone-healing, 
tissue regeneration and the biological role of elec- 
tromagnetic currents and fields. He wanted to find 
out how and why some animals could regenerate 
entire limbs and even vital organs and hoped that 
some of this resilience could be unlocked in the 
human body. Early on, he read reports from the 
Soviet Union about “currents of injury” — weak 
electrical flows in plants and animals that seemed 
to have something to do with tissue repair. In the 
West, bioelectricity was regarded as a subject unfit 
for serious research. 
Becker’s interest in the subject seemed quite sub- 
versive in the 1950s, and a subplot of this book is 
how the popularity or unpopularity of certain ideas 
affects the funding of medical research. To make a 
long story short, Becker’s work produced many 
breakthroughs in our understanding of regenera- 
tion and led to the development of an implantable 
electrode charged solely by the electro-potential of 
the surrounding tissue that apparently accelerates 
bone-healing in humans. He also claims to have 
confirmed Albert Szent-Gyorgyi’s hunch that cer- 
tain types of living tissue are semiconductors — 
in particular, peripheral nerves and bone. When 
tissues with different electronic properties meet in 
the salty fluid of the body, a sort of “diode” is 
formed. The body as a whole, says Becker, not 
just the nervous system, is an active circuit. 
For medical people, used to thinking of the body in 
chemical or mechanical terms, this is radical stuff. 
And the implications are more radical still: by anal- 
ogy with solid-state semiconductors, where minute 
changes in the chemical structure of a chip drasti- 
cally affect its electronic response, could minute 
chemical changes likewise alter the body’s semi- 
conduction? If, for example, we were immersed in 
an electromagnetic environment very different from 
the one in which our bodies evolved, might that not 
have subtle but significant repercussions on body 
chemistry? 
When the book focuses on Becker's own research 
(as it does most of the time), it’s quite detailed and 
convincing. In fact, it’s a great detective story, as 
he probes the regenerative talents of salamanders, 
frogs and newts (when he cuts out half the heart of 
a newt, he discover it can regrow the missing half 
in less than a day!) He’s careful to qualify his re- 
sults and to discuss anomalous and contradictory 
evidence when his findings are inconclusive. 
LINE OF STRESS 
STIMULATION OF 
APATITE-COLLAGEN 
JUNCTIONS TO PRODUCE 
ELECTRICAL CURRENTS 
RESULTANT OVERALL 
ELECTRICAL VECTOR 
SUBSEQUENT 
GROWTH TO THIS AREA 
ALIGNMENT OF COLLAGEN 
FIBERS BY ELECTRICAL 
CURRENT 
ELECTRICAL STIMULATION OF 
CELLULAR GROWTH AND 
TROPOCOLLAGEN FORMATION il 
BONE’S ELECTRICAL SYSTEM GUIDES GROWTH 
The book is less cautious in citing research by oth- 
ers, especially in fields beyond Becker's own ex- 
pertise. And there’s no bibliography — no way to 
go back to the original reports. Since so much in 
this book strains credulity, the lack of specific cita- 
tions is very frustrating, even irresponsible. 
But the most irritating flaws come toward the end 
of the book, where speculation starts to crowd out 
science. The long chapter on the hazards of man- 
made electromagnetic fields has a number of inac- 
curacies. However, there’s nothing else like this 
book in print, and its content is much too important 
to ignore. The vistas it opens should keep re- 
searchers busy for decades — if they’re not put off 
by the popularized presentation. 
—Robert Horvitz 
¢ 
Szent-Gyorgyi pointed out that the molecular structure of 
The Web That 
Has No Weaver 
Ted J. Kaptchuk, O.M.D. 
1983; 402 pp. 
$12.95 
($15.45 postpaid) from: 
Contemporary Books 
180 North Michigan Avenue 
Chicago, IL 60601 
or Whole Earth Access 
The web connects distant parts of the body, so 
that they inform one another, communicating a 
wholeness we call health. Cybernetics of bodily 
information as the root of bodily unity is old hat in 
Eastern medicine. New to the West, the whole- 
system circuit approach needs a good explainer. 
Everyone working with acupuncture and oriental 
drugs says this articulate book is the best one. 
—Kevin Kelly 
a 
All relevant information, including the symptom as well as 
the patient's other general characteristics, is gathered and 
woven together until it forms what Chinese medicine calls a 
“pattern of disharmony.” This pattern of disharmony 
describes a situation of ‘imbalance’ in a patient's body. 
Oriental diagnostic technique does not turn up a specific 
disease entity or a precise cause, but renders an almost 
poetic, yet workable, description of a whole person. 
BODY CIRCUITS 
many parts of the cell was regular 
enough to support semiconduction. This 
idea was almost completely ignored at 
the time. Even when Szent-Gyorgyi 
expanded the concept in his 1960 Intro- 
duction to a Submolecular Biology, 
most scientists (except in Russia!) 
dismissed it as evidence of his advanc- 
ing age, but that little book was an 
inspiration to me. | think it may turn out 
to be the man’s most important contribu- 
tion to science. In it he conjectured that 
protein molecules, each having a sort of 
slot or way station for mobile electrons, 
might be joined together in long chains 
so that electrons could flow in a semi- 
conducting current over long distances 
without losing energy, much as ina 
game of checkers one counter could jump along a row of 
other pieces across the entire board. Szent-Gyorgyi 
suggested that the electron flow would be similar to 
photosynthesis, another process he helped elucidate, in 
which a kind of waterfall of electrons cascaded step by 
step down a staircase of molecules, losing energy with 
each bounce. The main difference was that in protein 
semiconduction the electrons’ energy would be con- 
served and stored in the chemical bonds of food. 
Sd 
Most city dwellers continuously get more than a tenth of 
a microwatt from television microwaves alone. This may 
be especially significant, because of the human body’s 
resonant frequency. This is the wavelength to which the 
body responds “as an antenna.” Next to the ELF range, 
it's perhaps the region of the spectrum, in which the 
strongest bioeffects may be expected. The peak human 
resonant frequency lies right in the 
middle of the VHF television band. 
“The Liver rules the tendons and is 
manifest in the nails.” The proper 
movement of all the tendons in the 
* body is closely related to the Liver. 
To Chinese medicine, “tendons” is a 
broader category than it is in 
Western anatomy, for it includes 
ligaments and, to some extent, 
muscles. If the Liver Blood is 
insufficient and incapable of 
nourishing the tendons, symptoms 
such as spasms, numbness of the 
limbs, and difficulty in bending or 
stretching may result. Liver 
disharmonies may also cause the 
nails to be thin, brittle, and pale. 
When the Liver Blood is plentiful, 
however, the tendons are supple and 
the nails appear pink and moist. 
of 
ae 
ee 
ane 
111 
