ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 
Al Expert 
(The Magazine of Artificial 
Intelligence in Practice) 
Philip Chapnick, Editor 
$37/year 
(12 issues) from: 
Al Expert 
P.O. Box 11328 
Des Moines, IA 50340-1328 
800/341-SERV 
In current computer patois, an “expert system” is 
one that can perform complex tasks in a single- 
minded and efficient manner. All of the system’s 
actions are predictable because they have been 
pre-programmed; in other words, the system’s 
knowledge of any given task is deep, but its under- 
standing is shallow. That’s why you need other 
expert systems that can perform other specific 
tasks. The current theory in Al circles is that if you 
hook up enough expert systems, you might be able 
to create something that is able to model human 
intelligence. Al Expert is not a magazine devoted 
to the theory of Al, but to its business and commer- 
cial applications. Mostly this takes the forms of 
various expert systems. While I’m not a program- 
mer and have only a passing interest in big busi- 
ness, I find the magazine interesting precisely 
because it reports on how Al is being used in the 
real world. With all the fascination and banality that 
that implies. 
— Richard Kadrey 
Artificial Intelligence 
Using C 
Herbert Schildt 
1987; 360 pp. 
$21.95 
($25.95 postpaid) from: 
McGraw Hill, Inc. 
13955 Manchester Road 
Manchester, MO 63011 
800/722-4726 
or Whole Earth Access 
This could serve as a base for a home-brew expert 
system — an Al system that mimics the complex 
knowledge of an expert. These simple programs, 
written in a very clear coding style, include such 
sophisticated features as heuristic search strate- 
gies, natural language processing, pattern recogni- 
tion, backtracking, and machine learning. Schildt 
shows how to build the programs step-by-step, 
each part gradually adding to the techniques 
just developed. 
If you’re a programmer and won- 
LE 
eZ 
der how people can imple- 
ee 
ment uncertainty and 
ee 
“fuzzy logic” in 
z 
clean, tight C code, 
read this book. And 
eee 
order the diskette 
aaean 
with the program 
listings. Not a bad 
way to learn C, either. 
A 
URBANA 
LOS ANGELES 
— Matthew McClure 
Start 
NEW YORK 
A 
TORONTO 
s, 
DENVER 
(.OS ANGELES ) CHICAGO 
The Tomorrow Makers 
Grant Fjermedal 
1986; 272 pp. 
$8.95 
($11.45 postpaid) from: 
Microsoft Press 
Attn.: Consumer Sales 
16011 NE 36th Way, 
Box 97017 
Redmond, WA 98073-9717 
206/882-8080 
or Whole Earth Access 
Deep robotics, deep shivers. 
Fjermedal has done the formidable footwork of 
staying up countless nights working, scheming and 
speculating with most of the cutting-edge robot 
fanatics in the labs at Carnegie-Mellon, MIT, Stan- 
ford, Thinking Machines Corp., and on andon—a 
fine comprehensive sweep. His report on work in 
Japan is a scoop and fittingly closes the book, 
since it proves that some of the wilder speculation 
he begins with is already stalking about in Japan, 
like some ominous, humorous Transformer toy, 
just barely still a plaything. 
For grasping what technology is rapidly bringing by 
way of exploding human bodies and minds into 
new configurations, The Tomorrow Makers 
blends nicely with Eric Drexler’s Engines of 
Creation and my own The Media Lab. This stuff is 
even more interesting than gene-splicing, and 
more thrilling, both for promise and menace. For 
example: serious immortality, soon. 
—Stewart Brand 
Sd 
Will the robots recall that we were their creators? 
Example of a way a computer can find a route from New York to Los 
Angeles using artificial intelligence: This “depth-first “ solution ex- 
plores all possible paths to their conclusions before trying other 
paths. The computer’s solution is good, but depth-first for complex 
problems is a slow process. Another technique, breadth-first search- 
ing is the opposite of depth-first searching. Breadth-first searching 
checks each node at the same level before it proceeds to the next 
deeper level. A disadvantage to breadth-first searching when you're 
looking for an answer that is several layers deep. Generally, the 
programmer chooses between depth-first and breadth-first searching 
by making an educated guess as to where the goal is most likely to 
be. Another search technique is a hill-climbing search, which at- 
tempts to find as a first solution one that uses the heuristic that states 
that the longer the distance 
covered, the greater the 
likelihood that you will be 
placed closer to the destina- 
tion — thereby reducing the 
number of connection. The 
opposite of the hill-climbing 
search is the low cost 
search. Think of this strategy 
as being similar to standing in 
the middle of a street on a big hill while 
wearing roller skates: you have the definite feeling that it is 
much easier to go down, rather than up. Thus, least-cost takes 
the path of least effort. 
DENVER 
CALGARY LOS ANGELES 
And if they do, how much will we be able to trade on 
this? Will there be a sentimentality about this sense of 
origin? Initially we could program this in, but later, as the 
robots begin propelling their own evolution, will this be a 
memory deemed worthy of retention? Will they not 
remember who taught them to play, who blessed them 
with the need to frolic? 
¢ 
Tachi has succeeded with his vision system. It truly 
gives you the feeling that you are inside the robot, look- 
ing at the world from within its body, not your own. This 
is possible because the operator isn’t just looking at a 
television monitor; his head is encased in a black-velvet- 
lined box. Within this box are two television receivers, 
one for each eye. The receivers are gauged so that the 
image that is reflected against the retina of each eye is 
exactly the same as if you were looking at the world 
unaided. Further, every movement of your head is dupli- 
cated on the robot, where two precisely placed video 
cameras transmit a human range of what is seen. 
The result of this is that when | went into the laboratory 
and strapped my head inside the black box, it was as if | 
were seeing with my own eyes. The depth and scope of 
human vision was so completely reproduced, and the 
color was so clear, that it was at first unsettling and then 
a wild visual delight. . 
. 
. 
Someone in the laboratory went over to the robot- 
mounted cameras and swung them around so that they 
focused on me. The walls spun during the maneuver, 
and then when the motion stopped and | was looking at 
myself, the out-of-body experience began. It was as if | 
were standing a few feet away in another body looking at 
myself. | moved my head to look up and down and even 
to look away. And when | looked away from that person 
who was me, it was as if that body were just another 
passerby. ... 
“Are you here?” Tachi laughed. “Or are you there? 
Where is your body?” 
Hit 
Ss 
i 
b 
Computers can “learn” by rote (a program 
that tells them what to do), or by the much 
more difficult method of cognitive learning 
(recognizing classes of objects and ideas and drawing conclusions). 
The Hit-and-Near- Miss Method is one way to teach a computer (or 
human) about objects. Here we see correct arches (a, c, d, e) anda 
near-miss (b). By creating an algorithm that teaches class descrip- 
tions, a computer can learn, for instance, the difference between a 
correctly built arch and a near-miss. 
e 
