A Lack of Communication 
by Sarah Vandershaf 
The study of interspecies communication has suffered 
setbacks in recent years, partly because of the overall 
reduction of government funding for (nonmilitary) 
science research, partly because the field is viewed as 
being somewhat flaky, if not quite comparable to 
Kirlian photography and spontaneous combustion. 
Ironically, the more mainstream science neglects inter- 
species communication research, the more the field is 
left to people whose devotion to the scientific method 
may be less than total, but who are willing to invest 
their own time and energy to investigate animal (even 
plant) language. Some, more traditional, scientists such 
as Penny Patterson (of Koko, the gorilla, fame) and 
John Lilly’s dolphin researchers perisist regardless of 
the present climate. So the study of interspecies commu- 
nication is far from dead. The idea of finding new crea- 
tures to talk with is just too compelling for researchers 
to ever give up. If it also sounds compelling to you, this 
page may give you a place to start. 
Interspecies 
Communication 
$25/year 
(4 issues) from: 
IC, Inc. 
: 
273 Hidden Meadow Lane 
Friday Harbor, WA 98250 
Interspecies Communica- 
tion, Inc. was founded to 
promote relations between humans and animals 
_ the way civic groups promote relations between 
sister cities — with meetings between representa- 
_ tives, full of warm smiles and good intentions. IC’s 
newsletter reports on these meetings, which have 
| 
, recently involved U.S., Soviet, and cetacean 
musicians in one case, and psychics and orcas 
in another. 
You can’t call this pseudoscience, though; IC 
doesn't claim that this is any sort of science at all. 
The idea, rather, is to interact with other species in 
whatever way — scientific, artistic, shamanistic — 
seems most appropriate to the situation. This is 
certainly a broader definition of “communication” 
than most researchers would accept. But the ap- 
proach does give the animals a greater opportunity 
to shape the exchange to their liking than a purely 
scientific approach would allow. 
—SV 
5 
In Nome, we found much local interest in our project, 
and intimations of several other Soviet/American “bridg- 
ings” also in the planning stage. Flying to an outlying 
Eskimo village located directly across from Siberia, a 
place still locked by the sea ice in late June, we were 
received quite cordially. One elder, a lifelong whale 
hunter, seemed keen to learn all we could tell him about 
the joy of communicating with various whale species via 
music. “I'd like to hear that,” he answered, but then 
added, “You know, of course, that we still need to hunt 
the whales. For us, it’s a matter of survival.” When we 
gave him a copy of Orcas Greatest Hits he responded 
warmly, and assured us that he and his friends would 
give it a close listen. 
INTERSPECIES COMMUNICATION § 133 
Silent Partners 
(The Legacy of the Ape 
Language Experiments) 
Eugene Linden 
1986; 247 pp. 
$3.95 
($4.95 postpaid) from: 
Random House 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster MD 21157 
800/638-6460 
or Whole Earth Access 
This is a book about territoriality, about aggressive 
posturing for dominance, about love and hate and 
jealousy within the tightly-knit tribes of a highly 
intelligent yet sometimes volatile species — 
scientists. Specifically, the animal-language re- 
searchers in the mid-70s who attempted to teach 
sign language to chimps (and one gorilla), with 
apparent success. 
But this golden age was as brief as it was brilliant. 
Divisiveness between labs and the controversial 
nature of the experiments themselves nearly de- 
stroyed the research’s credibility; government 
funds soon dried up. Then, many 
of the apes were 
dispersed to various laboratories, some for medical 
experimentation. 
To Eugene Linden, an observer of the ape-lan- 
guage studies almost from the beginning, these 
apes were friends. As Linden explains the reasons 
why such promising research collapsed, his devo- 
tion is apparent — a devotion that transcends the 
usual journalistic desire to uncover the truth. 
—SV 
- TERRESTRIAL 
MICROWAVE WINDOW 
The Search for Extraterrestrial 
Intelligence 
(A Slide Set and 
Introductory Booklet) 
ASP Catalog #AS 304 
Dr. Frank Drake 
1988; 19 pp. & 20 color slides 
$20.50 postpaid from: 
ASP 
SETI Slides Department 
390 Ashton Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94112 
415/661-8660 
No review of interspecies communication would be 
complete without a word from the little green men. 
They haven't been found yet, but there are plenty 
of big pink men working on the problem. The 
Astronomical Society of the Pacific has compiled a 
concise, readable update (complete with a set of 
20 slides) on efforts to contact extraterrestrial 
¢ 
That first day my attention was on Washoe, and, a little 
nervous about meeting a full-grown chimp for the first 
time, | was grateful for whatever relationship Roger 
might have with the animal. Washoe gave Roger a big 
hug when she came out, and then we went for a walk. 
During the walk, Roger picked up an apple and offered it 
to Washoe, signing, “What's this?” Washoe knuckle- 
walked over to us from the tree in which she had been 
playing and made the sign for “fruit” by placing her fist 
against the side of her mouth. Roger asked her, “Who 
fruit?” to which she replied, “Washoe fruit.” Roger said, 
“What Washoe fruit?” and Washoe dutifully said, “Please 
Washoe fruit.” 
Depending on who you talk to, this was either a conver- 
sation, or, on Washoe’s part at least, a rote response 
triggered by the opportunity to get a reward, or a rote 
behavior cued either consciously or unconsciously by 
Roger, or a series of hand movements only vaguely 
associated in Washoe’s mind with the symbols and 
sentences Roger thought he was eliciting. Itis also a 
dead ringer for innumerable conversations Madelaine 
and | have recently had with our daughter, Gillian. 
Sa 
... | left with the feeling that sign language was an 
important means of contact with humanity for these 
chimps. It must be somewhat mystifying to them that no 
one seems to care about communicating with them in 
this way anymore. Even though virtually all sign contact 
with any of the chimps ceased long ago, the chimps 
themselves have not given up signing. What do the 
signs mean to these chimps? Why did they enter into 
signing again with such alacrity? At the time of my visit, 
no one was really interested in finding out the answers to 
these questions. Roger Fouts was gone, sign-language 
experiments were out of favor, and little funding was 
available, even if people had been interested in these 
questions. Only the chimps had not gotten the news. 
Because interstellar space travel would take far too long, the best way to communi- 
cate with extraterrestrials would be to send a signal over radio waves. Itis important 
that the channel we select be as free from noise (static) as possible and that our 
means of communication be as cost-effective as we can make it. For both these 
reasons, the microwave region of the radio spectrum seems to be the best bet. 
A message to space, broadcast from 
the Arecibo transmitter in Puerto Rico 
on November 16, 1974. The top row of 
the message gives binary notation for 
the numbers 1-10, to explain the 
encoding method to the message's 
recipients. The second row shows the 
numbers 1, 6, 7, 8, and 15 — the 
atomic numbers of the key elements 
that make up life on earth. The next 
four rows contain molecules composed 
of these elements that form the DNA 
molecule. Below that is the spiral of the 
DNA molecule itself, and a cartoon ofa 
human, with the human population of 
earth coded to the left, and human 
height coded to the right. Lastis a 
representation of the solar system, with 
the third planet from the Sun directly 
over a diagram of the Arecibo dish. 
intelligence, including current projects that will set 
the stage for research into the 21st Century. 
—SV 
