138 MAPMAKING 
Mapmaking 
by Don Ryan 
A measure of the difficulty of progress in cartography is 
the out-of-printness of two of these texts. Their market 
is limited to academe and a small interface with com- 
merce and government. The costs of production are dis- 
proportionate: High quality reproduction of already 
printed maps is technically difficult, therefore costly; 
the generation of hundreds of entirely new illustrations 
~ 
is even more so. 
Slow, conservative evolution within a proven market 
had kept the third book alive. What has suffered is the 
growth of knowledge and advancement of the art. 
Find these books in a large public or university library. 
Semiology of Graphics 
University of Wisconsin Press 
OUT OF PRINT 
“Semiology” means the “language of signs,” and 
it’s significant that semiology originated within the 
same circle of french sociologists to which this 
book’s author, Jacques Bertin, belongs. 
This book is mother-lode of the theory of technical 
graphics. But it is written in the tone of one artist 
speaking to another. That is, technical graphics are 
treated as a legitimate art-form, to which standards 
of clarity, form, and balance are to be applied. 
Every mapmaker and computer graphics jockey 
will find useful material in this book. 
— Robert G. Flower 
lowing figures: 
30° west; 
1952); 
“ 
Examples of Several Oblique Planispheres 
Along with Brisemeister’s equivalent projection (figure 12, 
page 293), several oblique projections are given in the fol- 
11—Guillaume Postel’s compromise projection. This is 
similar to the projection in figure 6, with the axis 
through the Pacific Ocean (J. Strohl); 
12—‘’Atlantis” projection, Mollweide’s equivalent projec- 
tion, where the main axis corresponds to the meridian 
13—projection with regional compromise (J. Bertin, 1953), 
in which the compromise is no longer homogeneous, 
but is modified for a larger deformation of the oceans, 
to give a lesser deformation of the continents; 
14—azimuthal equidistant projection, centered on Khar- 
toum; this is like the projection in figure 10, centered 
to group the set of the continents, including the South 
Pole, in the zone of least deformation; 
15—split projection with regional compromise (J. Bertin, 
16—projection with regional compromise achieved by jux- 
taposition of azimuthals (J. Bertin, 1954). 
Mapping Information 
Abt Books 
OUT OF PRINT 
This is the book for one entering thematic cartogra- 
phy in a serious way (this subset of the field ex- 
cludes maps of general interest such as topo- 
graphic maps or road maps, to deal with special 
subjects such as economic or scientific data, in- 
cluding non-physical events and totally abstract or 
hypothetical matters). 
By assuming that the beginning cartographer al- 
ready knows several ways to make a mark ona 
piece of paper — including via computer, if his or 
her pencil is broken (Fisher founded the pioneering 
Harvard Laboratory of Computer Graphics) the 
author frees the book of the necessity of describing 
penpoints and typesetters and reproduction tech- 
nology which will be obsolete by the time the book 
enters its second printing. In essence, the book 
becomes timeless. 
The chapter on using color is the only case | have 
ever seen where the verbal and diagrammatic 
description — in black and white — is sufficiently 
lucid that color is not needed on the pages. The 
rest of the book is as clear. 
A monumental work, essential in its theory. A vis- 
ual feast, full of transparent layers of beautifully- 
defined content. Ultimately desirable. No wonder 
it’s out of print. 
— Don Ryan 
Consider the 
problem of 
superimposing 
eleven adminis- 
trative systems 
(economic 
regions, social 
security, work in- 
spection, postal 
regions, military 
regions, regional 
planning areas, 
etc.) that were 
obtained from a 
preparatory 
survey for the determination of administrative regions. The various 
departmental boundaries can thus include from one to eleven 
regional boundaries. 
An engagingly written and clearly illustrated, very 
valuable book. A companion volume, covering 
general reference maps would make a world- 
beating set. | want them both. Please? 
— Don Ryan 
Elements of Cartography 
(Fifth Edition) 
Arthur Robinson 
1984; 448 pp. 
$45.45 
($47.40 postpaid) from: 
John Wiley & Sons 
1 Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08875 
201/469-4400 
or Whole Earth Access 
The great, grey tome of my college years has 
grown greater through many editions but is still not 
the single sufficient source I'd like it to be. 
The book first appeared in 1953, concentrating on 
history, design, and time-proven technique. Since 
then it has grown by accretion — like a hailstone 
— picking up layers here and there: remote sens- 
ing in the 60’s and layers of computer applications 
in the 70’s and early 1980's. Unfortunately, the 
busy layout of the book emphasizes the diversity of 
its origins rather than the cohesiveness of its 
theme. It is, frankly, uninspiring. A book about a 
visual craft or science just ought to look better. 
Too much space has been devoted to ephemeral 
technology. Large sections have been made obso- 
lete by evolution in the printing industry or the 
ongoing revolution in micro-computing. This cover- 
age should have been left to the books and maga- 
zines in those areas (see pages 140-150) to which, 
by the way, no reference is made. 
Despite the shortness of art and deficiencies of 
organization, however, the core of academic car- 
tography is adequately served. | would wish for 
some influence from outside that circle and eventu- 
ally a total revision of illustration and layout. 
— Don Ryan 
The watercourse of the Loire upriver from the Forez plain. This is 
progressively reduced in scale. The photographic reduction make the 
loops of the river disappear progressively, beginning with the small- 
est ones. The deisgner has the choice between the disappearance of 
the smallest loops or their preservation by amplification. 
