42 READING SKILLS 
| 
eT 
ES 
The Reader’s Adviser 
(13th Edition). Volume 1: The Best in American and 
British Fiction, Poetry, Essays, Literary Biography, 
Bibliography and Reference. Volume 2: The Best in 
American and British Drama and World Literature in 
English Translation. Volume 3: The Best in General 
Reference Literature, the Social Sciences, History and 
the Arts. Volume 4: The Best in the Literature of 
Philosophy and World Religions. Volume 5: The Best in 
the Literature of Science, Technology and Medicine. 
Volume 6: Indexes. $75 each ($78.50 postpaid); 
$195/3-volume set 
($204.75 postpaid); 
$375/6-volume set 
($393.75 postpaid) 
All from: 
R.R. Bowker Co. 
Order Department 
P.O. Box 762 
New York, NY 10011 
800/521-8110 
or Whole Earth Access 
If you throw darts at a world map and go where 
they point, you'll have a much more interesting va- 
cation than anything the travel bureau can offer. 
Likewise if you throw one of these hefty volumes at 
a bed, examine the open pages and read in the di- 
rection indicated, your mind will meet minds a 
bookstore dare not carry. Every goddamn page 
has fascinating people and works that I’ve never 
heard of in my high rent liberal education, warmly 
and searchingly remarked upon, with all the ac- 
cess information you need to waltz cheerfully 
through library procedures to the goods. 
—Stewart Brand 
¢ 
KING, MARTIN LUTHER, JR. 1929—1968 (Nobel 
Peace Prize 1964) 
ABC of Reading 
Ezra Pound 
1934, 1960; 206 pp. 
$6.95 
($8.64 postpaid) from: 
New Directions Books 
W.W. Norton & Co. 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10110 
800/233-4830 
or Whole Earth Access 
In grade and high school | was taught how to hate 
Shakespeare, most novelists, and all poetry. Col- 
lege merely burnished my ignorance, adding the 
ability to hate in French. Ezra Pound, where were 
you when | needed you? Through Pound, literature 
becomes a place to revel, confirm, maybe even 
grow. 
—Stewart Brand 
5 
It doesn't, in our contemporary world, so much matter 
where you begin the examination of a subject, so long as 
you keep on until you get round again to your starting- 
point. 
® 
“Literature is news that STAYS news.” 
Son and grandson of Baptist preachers, King was born 
into a middle-class black family in Atlanta, Georgia. At 
Morehouse College his early concerns for social justice 
for blacks were deepened by reading Thoreau’s (see 
Vol. 1) essay “Civil Disobedience.” He enrolled in Crozer 
Theological Seminary and there became acquainted with 
the Social Gospel movement and the works of its chief 
spokesman, Walter Rauschenbusch. Mahatma Gandhi's 
practice of nonviolent resistance (ahimsa) became for 
him later a tactic for transforming love into social 
change. 
After seminary, he postponed his ministry vocation by 
first earning a doctorate at Boston University School of 
Theology. There he discovered the works of Reinhold 
Niebuhr and was especially struck by Niebuhr’s insis- 
tence that the powerless must somehow gain power if 
they are to achieve what is theirs by right. In the 
Montgomery bus boycott it was by economic clout that 
The Read-Aloud 
Handbook 
— 
Jim Trelease 
ee 
1979, 1987; 243 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.95 postpaid) from: 
Penguin Books 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
201/933-1460 
or Whole Earth Access 
The value of this book is in its practical and simple 
approach — if we want to we can have children 
who want to learn to read, and to think. We need 
only give them our time. Trelease makes convinc- 
ing and hopeful arguments on how to reverse the 
increasing illiteracy in America. His chapter about 
television’s effects on kids is downright scary, but 
he gives parents workable suggestions on how to 
control its influence. From picture books to novels, 
more than 300 titles are synopsized, and there are 
references to hundreds of other good books. 
—Lindi Wood 
4 
More than half a century ago there was a poor Quaker 
woman who took in a foundling child and began reading 
Dickens to him every night. Surely she could not have 
dreamed the words and stories would have such an 
enormous impact; the boy, James Michener, would write 
his first book at age 39 and his thirty-second at 78. In be- 
tween there would be bestsellers translated into fifty-two 
languages, selling more than 60 million copies, and en- 
joyed by countless millions of readers. 
Reading 
aloud toa 
child is a 
good way to 
inspire a 
ing in adult- 
hood 
love of read- 
the blacks broke down the walls separating the races, for 
without black riders, the city’s transportation system 
nearly collapsed. .. 
. 
Book by King 
A Testament of Hope: The Essential Writings of Mar- 
tin Luther King, Jr. Ed. by James M. Washington, 
Harper 1986 $22.00. This really does have most of the 
essential writings: King’s Strength to Love and Stride 
toward Freedom appear to be intact in this recent col- 
lection. 
—Volume 4, The Best in the Literature of Philosophy 
and World Religions 
How to Read a Book 
(The Classic Guide to Intelligent Reading) 
Mortimer J. Adler and 
Charles Van Doren 
1940, 1972; 426 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.95 postpaid) from: 
Simon & Schuster 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
800/223-2348 
or Whole Earth Access 
Adler and Van Doren propose a reexamination of 
the much-overlooked idea that there are tech- 
niques for reading books, just as there are tech- 
niques for driving in the rain and playing soccer. 
They’ve resurrected and present here a collection 
of rules and instructions of the sort used in the 
Middle Ages as part of the trivium of logic, gram- 
mar, and rhetoric. Few people could read then, but 
the ones who could usually read very well. The au- 
thors believe that with this rhetorical tool kit and a 
lot of hard work, most people can learn to do the 
same. 
| spent 6 1/2 years in college. My best intellectual 
happening there was coming across this book. 
—T. Durso 
| spent 1 year in college. | dropped out after read- 
ing this book. Under its tutorship | read a fair chunk 
of classic literature with more enthusiasm, insight, 
and reward than came with university classes. 
—Kevin Kelly 
¢ 
Analytical reading is thorough reading, complete read- 
ing, or good reading — the best reading you can do. If 
inspectional reading is the best and most complete read- 
ing that is possible given a limited time, then analytical 
reading is the best and most complete reading that is 
possible given unlimited time. 
The analytical reader must ask many, and organized, 
questions of what he is reading. We do not want to state 
these questions here, since this book is mainly about 
reading at this level: Part Two gives its rules and tells 
you how to do it. We do want to emphasize here that 
analytical reading is always intensely active. On this 
level of reading, the reader grasps a book — the meta- 
phor is apt — and works at it until the book becomes his 
own. Francis Bacon once remarked that “some books 
are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few 
to be chewed and digested.” Reading a book analytically 
is chewing and digesting it. 
