i. «@ 
File 
Edit 
Search 
Format 
Font 
Document 
Window 9m 
3:53 
WORD FINDER® from Microlytics™ 
choice, deluxe, elegant, first class, grand, luxuriant, luxurious, 
opulent, ornate, palatial, plush, posh, soft, stately, sumptuous, 
thick; 
abundant, cormucopian, extravagant, exuberant, garish, generous, 
lavish, lush, luxuriant, opulent, prodigal, profuse, wasteful; 
abundant, fattening, heavy, sweet, thick; 
affluent, copious, leisure class, loaded, moneyed, opulent, 
wealthy, well-to-do; 
is just as good as Rodale's, maybe better, 7x71 can check it in mid-stride, as 
it's a "desk accessory" for the machine I'm writing on. That means I can 
"select" argr word that's giving me pause, invoke the WORD FINDER desk 
accessory by grabbing it from the pull-down "Apple" menu always available 
array of related words appears ina window 
(carefully placed not to cover the text being worked with), organized into 
nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc. If I like one of the words better, or just want to 
onscreen, and instantly a 
Word Finder 
Not copy-protected. Macintosh version 1.0. $59.95; PC 
MS-DOS version 4.0 $79.95 from: Microlytics, Inc., 300 
Main Street, East Rochester, NY 14445; 800/828-6293 
Language 
Technology 
Louis Rossetto, Editor 
$50/year 
(6 issues) from: 
Language Technology 
P. O. Box 624 
Norwell, MA 02061-0624 
This thrilling periodical 
began with.a seemingly 
dull mission: to explore machine (computer) translation of 
one language into another. The editors use that query as an 
excuse to follow their curiosity into overlapping concepts 
such as Controlled English (a simplified vocabulary to force 
clear technical writing), automatic lip syncing, bilingual word 
processors, synthetic grammars, hyper-linked text, and re- 
newed Pidgin languages. Each issue expands the border- 
less territory of their search. 
Language is so easily employed without gadgetry, that as in 
the case of arithmetic and mathematics, when technology 
does bear down upon it, it is pressed into self-discovery. 
_ 
In this awakening lies the germ of universal language 
calculators. 
¢ 
Machine translation research has received a boost as an indirect 
result of legislation enacted last year by the U.S.Congress. The 
Japanese Tehnical Literature Act calls for coordinating federal and 
industry of translation activities, cataloging more Japanese re- 
search reports and translating many more technical documents. But 
a major problem 
has been the 
United States’ lack 
of competent trans- 
lators; according to 
the Government 
Computer News, 
only 500 Ameri- 
cans are qualified 
for the job. 
Machine-assisted 
translation (MAT) 
seems the only so- 
lution. The United 
Often in writing it’s 
important not to break 
stride as an idea leads 
you down an eloquent 
path. If you stumble 
on a wrong word or 
| 
— Kevin Kelly 
stupidly repeated 
word, that self- 
consciousness can 
throw you off, and 
stopping to grab a 
thesaurus for help can 
make you lose the 
thought’s momentum 
entirely. Till now I’ve 
found Rodale’s book 
The Synonym Finder ($19.95, Rodale Press) to 
be the least disruptive word fixer. 
I’ve converted to Word Finder because its selec- 
States Air Force is trying to develop advanced computer 
systems that can determine the appropriate meaning of 
a character by reading characters in context, GCN 
reports. 
SPEECH RECOGNI- 
TION SYSTEM FOR 
ABNORMAL SPEECH 
Ryu Tajiri 
iophysicist 
Elliot Davis, a 
research asso- 
ciate with the State University of New 
York's Health Instrument Devices Insti- 
tute in Buffalo, New York, has devel- 
oped a computer speech recognition system that he 
says can recognize and respond to a wider range of 
pronunciations and sounds than current systems. 
The system, now ina patent application process, 
can consistently respond to words and sounds that 
have wide varieties of pronunciation through accent 
or speech impediment. Davis hopes the system can be 
developed for use by persons who suffer speech dis- 
orders associated with paralysis. 
An ergonomic keyboard designed by 
Marquardt GmbH, in collaboration with the 
Stuttgart-based Institute for Industrial 
Economy and Organization. Marquardt has 
left unvaried the arrangement of keys. 
What’s so obviously new is the shape of 
the keyboard. Instead of confronting the 
user with straight rows — as If human 
beings had arms growing out of their 
chests — the Marquardt ergonomic key- 
board is divided into two “keyblocks,” 
fanning out at 30 degrees from each other, 
facing the user’s shoulders. 
DOCUMENT PROCESSORS 
31 
tion of alternate words is just as good as Rodale’s, 
maybe better, and I can check it in mid-stride, as 
it’s a “desk accessory” for the machine I’m writing 
on. That means | can “select” any word that’s giv- 
ing me pause, invoke the Word Finder desk acces- 
sory by grabbing it from the pull-down Apple menu 
always available on screen, and instantly a rich 
array of related words appears in a window (care- 
fully placed not to cover the text being worked 
with), organized into nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc. 
If | like one of the words better, or just want to try it 
in the sentence, | double-click on the word, and 
Word Finder replaces my original word with the 
new one, and the window vanishes. (It can do this 
with any text-making program — word processing, 
telecom, outlining, or whatever.) 
Not only haven't I lost the chain of thought, the 
quick glance at alternative words may have clari- 
fied the thought itself. | find | use the tool even 
more than a spelling checker. For now, Word 
Finder is the best word finder on the market 
for the Mac. 
— Stewart Brand 
ForComment 
Version 1.16; Not copy-protected. For IBM compatibles. 
$295 from: Broderbund Software Inc., 17 Paul Drive, 
San Rafael, CA 94903-2101; 415/492-3200 
Wiadu s12e 
ky re v1ener 
P Jump pint. 
& 
ta jem comments or 
Tine = td 
of 2 
Tighty-seven years a, our fathers brought forth on this 
¢ continent a new nation dedica’ 
created equal. 4 
OF 
Now we are snes in a great civil war, testing whether that 
ted to the proposition that all men are 
nation can long endure, 
le are met on a great battle-field of that 
war, We have come to dedicate a portion of that field, as a final 
See for those who here gave their lives that that nation 
¢ might 
live.4 
i 
But in-a larger sense, we can not dedicate this ground. 
The 
brave men, living and dead who struggled here, have consecrated it, 
Abe, this is too abrupt, 
ly suggested revision adds a few words to 
slow the pace and make 1% more AanetcE 
Ge 
aj 
11-41-1987 
But in a larger sense, 
we can not dedicate--we can not 
consecrate--we can not hallow--this sound. The 
aj 
{1-11-1987 
Fi for help 
ForComments’ Review menu screen 
Organizations write important stuff in groups. If you 
want to change a company policy, say, everyone 
will want to get into the act: one person drafts a 
proposal, then herds of interested parties will re- 
view the draft, scrawling marginal notes and sug- 
gested changes all over the original. ForCcomment 
controls that group writing/approval process ele- 
gantly. Each comment is carefully stored by con- 
tributor, recording each person’s suggestions by 
date and initials in an audit/edit trail file, so you can 
go back later and reconstruct how the final docu- 
ment was put together. You even get to try out 
suggested changes without modifying the original 
to see how well that suggestion might work. 
ForComment is particularly useful when all parties 
are linked together by a local area network, but 
works quite well passing the annotated document 
around on a floppy disk. 
— Richard Dalton 
