48 
CITATION INDEXING 
Citation Indexing 
by Kevin Kelly 
J 
UST AS footnotes and a bibliography trace an idea’s 
ancestors, citation indexing traces an idea’s offspring. 
Where did an idea come from? By weaving back through 
achain of footnotes, one can get a pretty good notion of all 
the sources that were the origin of a particular idea. 
Citation indexing answers a converse question: What are 
the ideas afterward that this particular idea influenced? As 
an example, with traditional references you can track all 
the influences on Richard Dawkin’s writings about 
“memes.” Citation indexing would allow you to track all 
later papers that then cite Dawkin’s writings, or in other 
words, all the other writers who found Dawkin’s ideas 
important. For some ideas, the number of citations will 
dwindle with every year; for others it will increase. 
Citation indexing could, in theory, make a list of any book 
or paper in the future that acknowledges this article of mine 
as a source of ideas. A year from now you could follow all 
the divergent paths these ideas have led to, probably weird 
offbeat comers you would have never found otherwise. 
It’s always a fair bet that someone else lured by the same 
idea you find important may have something to tell you. 
While simple in concept, citation indexing is murderously 
complex in logistics. It’s the perfect job for an overedu- 
cated computer. A very large one at the Institute of Scien- 
tific Information (ISI) in Philadelphia keeps track of all the 
millions of connections in all the scholarly publications in 
English and generates the index as a printed annual 
mammoth 14 volumes wide, each volume bigger than the 
Manhattan Yellow Pages. The awesome series, known as 
the Science Citation Index usually lives on its own table 
in research libraries. Or, these days, as a vaporous thin 
electronic database service that can be searched online via 
Dialog. 
Citation indexing, and the Science Citation Index in 
particular, have tumed out to be useful in several other 
unique ways. Once all this information was burned inside 
a massive computer memory, information scientists tried 
tovisually map the pattern of citations. What they saw was 
a display of link clusters that corresponded to the way 
information flowed from lab to lab, scientist to scientist. 
Overall it portrayed the behavior of information as a 
communicable disease (see Memes, page 18). 
Researchers new to a field could look at a citation cluster 
map and get a good hint of where the godfathers were. An 
investigator could begin his research exploring the flock at 
the center and gather the most pertinent ideas there. 
Sweeping outward from the nucleus he would have to cast 
his net wider and wider over more and more papers to haul 
in the same catch of useful news. Paying attention to 
citations is a way to filter outsomuch extraneous material. 
Citation indexing has proved so useful in pinpointing 
erupting activity in science that it is used many times as a 
measure to decide where to fund research. Just pour your 
money into the hub of an expanding cluster. It also quickly 
became evident that it could be used to measure the 
significance of a scientist’s work. Rather than justcountup 
how many papers he published, count up how many times 
someone else cited his work. This has been a boon to those 
ERYTHROCYTE MEMBRANE-PROTEINS 
LEPKE 76 
CABANTCHIK 74 
29 
ak “aly 
| 
STECK 76 JENK 
KAHLENBERG 16 
BENDER 71 
UO represents a core document. Axes provide orientation. 
Proximity of D’s defines subject similarity. 
CABANTCHIK 74 
| 
| 
i 
Sl 
Eas 
| 
| 
| 
| 
KLETZIEN 72 
ESTENSEN 72 —}-------- ro-- 
: 
SANGER 72 
! 
+---4----b--- 
25 
------- 4-SPOONER 
70+ 
——— 
Amap showing the progression of ideas from one scientist to another. The most concentrated clumps of 
citations are likely to be the most rewarding 
spots to begin research ona subject. This charttracks biomedical documents dealing with red blood cell membranes in vertebrates. From the Institute 
of Scientific Information Atlas of Science — Biochemistry and Molecular Biology 78/80, 1981. 
who make a few key contributions, and a bane to those 
churning out mediocre reports that no one pays much 
attention to. Citation levels as a factor in academic promo- 
tions is a very touchy subject. 
The same can be said of counting citations of various 
scholarly journals. Some journal’s papers are cited more 
often than others, and citation indexing easily ranks them 
from the most often “quoted” to the least. Like other 
measurements (circulation, number of pages) numbers 
aren’t everything. Nonetheless, information trackers who 
know which journals are consistently producing articles 
that other people find noteworthy can quickly narrow the 
scope of a search in an impossibly wide thicket of data. In 
fact a small core of about 200 journals out of the 80,000 
published produce the majority of cited articles. 
You'll find this tracking in the Journal Citation Reports 
published by ISI, available wherever the Science Citation 
Index is. They have developed two measurements to 
evaluate optimum publications: 1) The Immediacy Index 
— a measure of how quickly the average article in a 
particular journal is cited; 2) Impact Factor — a measure 
of the frequency with which the average article in a 
particular journal has been cited in a particular year. As in 
citation indexing for authors, citation analysis of journals 
can depict the flow of information and indicate areas of 
particular restlessness. 
This peculiar brand of investigation is able to map the 
structure of investigative information. The father of this 
information mirror, Eugene Garfield, reports his experi- 
JOURNALS RANKED BY CATEGORY 
Impact 
Cited 
CANCER 
Factor 
Half-life 
1 ADV CANCER RES 
2 CANCER METAST REV 
CANCER RES 
INT J CANCER 
J CLIN ONCOL 
CARCINOGENESIS 
J NATL CANCER | 
CANCER 
CANCER TREAT REP 
BRIT J CANCER 
EXP CELL RES 
CANCER GENET CYTOGEN 
LEUKEMIA RES 
BREAST CANCER RES TR 
apis TREAT REV 
17 CANCER IMMUNOL IMMUN 
> ie) 
= COOODNMNAHW 
OOS 
COONS
OO 
CIS 
NRNOMVODNY
Journal rankings by category indicate the impactof articles published in 
the literature of a particular field. From Joumal Citation Reports. 
ments and conclusions with citation index in his very 
readable text Citation Indexing — Its Theory and 
Application in Science, Technology, and Humanities. 
Since it measures what has so long been only hunched at, 
Garfieldrightly sees it as the science of science, at best, and 
the science of scientific information, at least. 
Citation Indexing: Eugene Garfield, 1979; 274 pp. $18.95 
($20.95 postpaid). Current Contents: $298/yr (52 issues). 
Science Citation Index and Journal Citation Reports 
are found at most research libraries. All from Institute for 
Scientific Information, 3501 Market Street, Philadelphia, 
PA 19104; 800/523-1850 
