22 SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE 
Programming Pearls 
Jon Bentley; 1986; 200 pp.; $16.25 
($17.88 postpaid) 
More Programming Pearls 
Jon Bentley; 1988; 200 pp.; $16.25 ($17.88 postpaid) 
both from: Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1 
Jacob Way, Reading, MA 01867; 800/447-2226 or 
Whole Earth Access 
Two of the keys to good programming are creativ- 
ity and a playful approach to problem-solving. 
Bentley’s collections of brief essays and magazine 
columns encourage these traits in a mildly mind- 
bending manner. 
| expected to skim through these books, snag a 
few flashy new insights about programming, and 
be on my way. Bentley, however, draws you in like 
a fly fisherman. He proposes a simple problem, 
and encourages you to approach it in a workman- 
like manner. When you return with your answer, he 
replies, “Did you consider this?” No, you took the 
obvious approach, so you go back and work on it 
some more. Little that he says is profound by itself, 
but as you keep returning and being corrected, 
suddenly... enlightenment! 
— Bob Murphy 
¢ 
The moral of each of the stories is the same: don't write 
a big program when alittle one will do. Most of the 
structures exemplify what Polya calls the Inventor’s 
Paradox in his How To Solve It: “the more general prob- 
lem may be easier to solve”. In programming this means 
that it may be harder to solve a 73-case problem directly 
than to write a general program to handle the N-case 
version, and then apply it to the case that N=73. 
The Elements of 
Programming Style 
Brian W. Kernighan 
and Dennis Plauger 
1978; 160 pp. 
$22.50 postpaid from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Company 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, NJ 08520 
609/426-5254 
or Whole Earth Access 
For programmers, this is the one book to have if 
you're only having one. Like its namesake, Strunk 
and White’s Elements of Style, the book concen- 
trates on the essential practical aspects of style 
by example. 
Collected into chapters under such names as 
“Expression,” “Control Structure,” “Common Blun- 
ders,” and “Efficiency and Instrumentation” are real 
programs, not toys made up to illustrate a point. 
These bad examples serve as springboards for 
incisive discussions of the best ways to write cor- 
rect and readable programs. Sad to say, these 
programs come primarily from programming text- 
books, where our next generation of programmers 
is turning for guidance. Each of the examples gets 
rewritten, sometimes in more than one way, to 
Using the Structured 
Techniques 
(A Case Study) 
Audrey M. Weaver 
1987; 247 pp. 
$27 postpaid from: 
Prentice Hall 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
201/767-5937 
or Whole Earth Access 
This book will help you build software that you 
won't later regret. Structured program design, and 
the design of structured code, are taught in 
schools all over the world today. If you’re unfamiliar 
with these concepts, this book is an invaluable 
introduction; if you’ve studied these in courses, this 
manual will you show you how to actually put them 
into practice. 
The author brings information modeling to life as 
we follow Alan, a young programmer at Interna- 
tional Telewidgets Corporation through every step 
of a project from conception to maintenance. At 
each juncture, Alan applied the techniques from 
structured design, making clear thinking almost 
automatic. 
We learn best by doing, and watching Alan break a 
complex problem into manageable parts gives us a 
much richer understanding of structured program- 
ming than a mere exposition of technique. We 
have the comfortable illusion of watching real 
people figure out how to use the techniques to 
solve real problems, and it’s almost as good as 
illustrate the principles the authors espouse. The 
examples are in FORTRAN or PL/I, but are none- 
theless valuable in BASIC, COBOL, Pascal or any 
other common language. As the authors prove, 
“The principles of style are applicable in all lan- 
guages, including assembly codes.” 
Each example is followed by an aphorism that 
captures the point: “Write clearly — don’t be too 
clever’; “Choose a date representation that makes 
your program simple”, “Make it right before you 
make it faster’; The rules are listed together at the 
end of the book. A programmer could do worse 
than paste the list on the wall. 
This book could be used as a textbook for a pro- 
gramming course, yet the examples are sufficiently 
self-contained to allow you to open the book at 
random, read a few pages, and come away a 
better programmer. In fact, that’s not a bad way 
to work with the book on your second or 
third reading. 
One of the strongest messages in the book is that 
programming is a holistic task. The error in the sine 
function is not with the formula or the numerical 
analysis — the first place many programmers 
would look — but arises from the simplest of all 
An information model consists of an object-relationship diagram, 
object definitions and relationship definitions. Objects are the things 
that a business stores information about. An object can be something 
tangible, such as a person or a place, or it can be something intan- 
gible such as a concept, agreement, or event. For example, an object 
can be an employee, a customer, a contract, or a ballgame. In an 
information model, you define the objects that your system records 
data about and how these objects are related to each other. The 
illustration shows an object-relationship diagram naming the relation- 
ships someone needs to take a course. 
solving them ourselves. | highly recommend this 
book, and wish | had read it many years ago when 
| started writing programs. 
— Matthew McClure 
blunders, an uninitialized variable. Time and again, 
using subtle or surprising examples, Kernighan 
and Plauger lead us to sharpen our sharpen both 
our reading and writing skills by discussing what is 
wrong in a given instance, how to correct it, and, 
most important, how to avoid it. 
— Dennis Geller 
Sd 
SUMMARY OF RULES 
Write clearly — don’t be too clever. 
Avoid temporary variables. 
Write clearly — don't sacrifice clarity for efficiency. 
Let the machine do the dirty work. 
Use uniform input formats. 
Use the good features of a language; avoid the bad 
ones. 
Make your programs read from top to bottom. 
Don't stop with your first draft. 
Let the data structure the program. 
Each module should do one thing well. 
Make input easy and output self-explanatory. 
