72 
COMPUTER ADVENTURE GAMES 
Computer Adventure 
Games 
by Sarah Vandershaf 
The first time I ever played a computer game was at a 
MacWorld show in San Francisco. I wandered aimlessly 
from booth to booth and finally stopped at a Mac with 
an odd picture on its screen: trees, a door, a skull 
mounted above the door. Immediately a sales rep in a 
three-piece suit (who had probably seen too many 
potential customers walk away from the game in frustra- 
tion) flew to my side. He grabbed the mouse, aimed the 
pointer, and double-clicked on the skull. The skull rose, 
revealing a key underneath. Things move! “Now you 
can go in,” the sales rep said. 
And I never came out. That first one (which you game 
mavens no doubt recognize as Shadowgate) hooked me 
on computer games forever. I solved it, got two other 
games developed by Shadowgate’s creators, solved 
them, and then started sniffing around for still more 
games to devour. But I was far from omnivorous; I ig- 
nored arcade-type games, computer versions of familiar 
board games (chess, bridge, Monopoly), and flight 
simulators. Adventure games. All I wanted was the 
adventure games. 
Adventure games usually fall into one of three 
categories: text-only games (no pictures); games that, 
like Shadowgate, combine text and pictures with a 
single, unseen actor (you); and advanced role-playing 
games with text, pictures, and multiple on-screen 
characters. For those of you who have never played a 
computer game, the text-only games are like reading a 
novel that talks back to you; the text-picture games 
are like watching an animated cartoon that you can, 
Keys to Solving Computer 
Adventure Game 
M.K. Simon 
= 
Book | 
1987; 286 pp. 
Book II 
1988; 292 pp. 
$19.95 
($23.95 postpaid) 
Each from: 
Prentice-Hall 
Attn.: Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
201/767-5937 
or Whole Earth Access 
You buy a brand new game, play it for a while with 
no serious problems, and then it happens. 
YOU'RE STUCK! Really stuck. You try everything 
you can think of, but the answer eludes you. After 
a week of frustration, you're willing to do anything 
to get the solution. Even willing to buy the hint 
book produced by the game’s manufacturer — for 
$10 or so. 
Or you can buy these books, which give you maps 
and exact solutions to nearly four dozen recently- 
released games (as solved by the author, who 
to some extent, control. 
Computer games do tend to usurp other 
media. I have cut down on my fiction 
reading (bad) and completely forgotten 
about television (good!) since becoming 
a computer-game addict. Most of the 
games imitate — or parody — familiar 
literary genres. In my short gaming ca- 
reer, I have been a hard-boiled detec- 
tive, a traveler stranded in a haunted 
mansion, a brave knight battling the 
minions of an evil wizard, and the 
heroine of a historical romance set on a pirate-infested 
Caribbean isle. 
Game addictions are strictly a matter of personal taste. 
Since I started with a text-picture game on a black and 
white Mac monitor, I’ll probably prefer that combina- 
tion forever after. You can get Shadowgate and other 
games in color if you have an Amiga (games often 
come in multiple versions to accommodate different 
types of computers). And, of course, you could forget 
graphics altogether and go for the all-text games. 
I admit I don’t understand why anyone would prefer a 
game without pictures to one with — there’s something 
about the graphics-text games that draws you into their 
little worlds more completely than words alone can. 
For instance, in the scene above from Uninvited (the 
aforementioned haunted-house game and sister to Shad- 
owgate), the immediate challenge is to get past the odd 
creature blocking your path to the middle door. Above 
the scene is a menu of actions (“examine,” “operate,” 
etc.) you can perform on the creature using the objects 
in the inventory or anything you can find lying around 
the room. You could try “hitting” the creature with the 
apparently plays these games a lot). If you, too, 
play adventure games a lot, these volumes can 
save you quite a bit of cash. However, be fore- 
warned! Unlike some manufacturer's hint books, 
which provide levels of solutions from vague clues 
on up to “Do this, stupid,” these books tell you the 
answers outright. Use only when your desperation 
exceeds your desire to figure the game out for 
yourself, 
—SV 
® 
Book I: A View to a Kill, Ballyhoo, Black 
Cauldron, Borrowed Time, Brimstone, 
Chalice of Mostania, Crimson Crown, 
Destiny, Fantastic Four, Forbidden 
Castle, Fraktured Faebles, King’s Quest 
ll, Leather Goddesses of Phobos, Lost 
Ark of the Covenant, Mickey’s Space Ad- 
venture, Neverending Story, Oo-Topos 
(New Version), Rambo, Real Life, 
Spellbreaker, Tass Times in Tonetown, 
The Mist, Transylvania (New Version), 
Trinity, Voodoo Island. 
Book II: Arazok’s Tomb, Breakers, Bu- 
reaucracy, Deja Vu, Enchanted Scepters, 
Essex, Fellowship of the Ring (Parts | & 
Il), Goldfinger, Gunslinger, High Stakes, 
& File 
Cait 
Vevevevuvvvues 
Special 
Font 
FontSize 
vvuy 
Ett examine 
| Open | 
Close | 
ed 
| Hit | 
Consume | 
Operate | Go | 
vvVveuvvevveedVv 
eve 
SSE Room Eee 
eee ee ee eee ee 
ae 
Sy 
NURTAARTAUARENAT ESTHET SE 
og 
ty, 
sin| memnniamnnnnly, 
This elongated room contains three doorways. 
A strange, hideous creature stares at you. 
Mr. Wigglewort is just one of many helpful and good-natured crea- 
tures you will encounter in Uninvited. He likes the music of 
Rudy Vallee. 
axe. Or perhaps “operating” the Victrola will work (mu- 
sic hath charms .. 
. ?). If the beast remains unfazed, you 
can explore other rooms, dropping old things from the 
inventory and bringing back new things until you hit 
upon the right combination (the creature’s behavior 
gives you a hint). It seems silly, but when you do get 
through that door at last, you feel like you’ 
ve really 
accomplished something. 
So, whether you want to explore an emerging new en- 
tertainment medium or simply have thousands of hours 
of your life to waste, here are several great adventure 
games with which to begin your own addiction: 
Text-only games: Zork | & Il, Moonmist, The Hitchhiker's 
Guide to the Galaxy, Bureaucracy. Catalog free from 
Infocom, Inc., P.O. Box 478, Cresskill, NJ 07626; 800/ 
262-6868 
Graphics-text games: Uninvited, Shadowgate. Catalog 
free from Mindscape, Inc., 3444 Dundee Road, 
Northbrook, IL 60062; 800/221-9884 
Hollywood Hijinx, Indiana Jones, Moonmist (Blue, 
Green, Red & Yellow Variations), 
Shadowgate, Space Quest, Stationfall, The Lurking 
Horror, The Pawn, Uninvited. 
You've slain dragons and vanquished villains, but are you ready to do 
battle with the ultimate Forces of Evil in Bureaucracy? It's based on 
the real-life experiences of the game’s author, Douglas Adams, so it 
could be tougher than you think. This map, from Keys to Solving 
Computer Adventure Games: Book II, may save your life or at least 
get you waited on faster at the reservations desk. 
| BUREAUCRACY 
e
