90 INFORMATION BROKERING 
How to Make Money 
Doing Research 
with Your Computer 
Paul & Sarah Edwards 
1984; 40 pp. 
$29.95 
($31.95 postpaid) from: 
The Rugge Group 
1626 Chestnut Street 
Berkeley, CA 94702 
415/524-3212 
or Whole Earth Access 
Sue Rugge invented the occupation of information 
brokering in 1971 when she began what later be- 
came Information On Demand, the original com- 
pany that sold you whatever kind of information 
you wanted. Her business became the model for a 
whole economy. | 
find it significant that Sue Rugge 
was not a librarian, and that the founder of the 
archetypical Information-Age business did not 
even graduate from high school. She drew on what 
she calls her “eclectic generalism.” 
Paul and Sarah Edwards, authors of Working 
From Home (see page 174), interviewed Sue 
Rugge and produced a spiral bound monograph of 
the transcript. It’s an excellent, clear overview of 
what an information broker does and assumes the 
The Information Brokers 
(How to Start and Operate 
Your Own Fee-Based Service) 
Kelly Warnken 
1981; 154 pp. 
$15.95 
($19.25 postpaid) from: 
R.R. Bowker Company 
Order Department 
P.O. Box 762 
New York, NY 10011 
or Whole Earth Access 
What with the blooming of computerized data 
bases and the information economy, independent 
Information Broker 
Helen Burwell, Editor 
$35/year (6 issues) 
Directory of 
Fee-Based 
Information 
Services 
Helen Burwell, Editor 
1987; 238 pp. 
$30.95 postpaid 
Both from: Burwell Enterprises, 5106 FM1960 West 
Suite 349, Houston, TX 77069; 713/537-9051 
The Information Broker is a thin newsletter serv- 
ing up tips for the task of free-lance researching as 
well as recent additions to the Directory, which 
lists all known information brokers and independ- 
ent librarians in the US and 33 other countries (600 
in total). The Directory is a good place to get a 
handle on what this small industry (and your com- 
reader is not a librarian yet is enticed by this curi- 
ous new profession. It’s also an example of the 
business: an interview packaged into a not-cheap 
book — but that’s what it’s all about. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Sd 
What are some of the types of problems that people 
bring to you which they hope to solve by getting informa- 
tion? 
They run everywhere from avalanches to zeolites. That's 
what one of our ads says. It’s really so varied. It's amaz- 
ing. They might ask what the market for Christmas trees 
in Hawaii is, what the latest information is on curing 
cancer by vitamin C injections, or what is the latest 
technology in charged coupled devices. Every time the 
phone rings you have to be totally alert to a new subject 
that you’ve never heard of before. 
5 
Confidentiality is extremely important. | mean we have 
actually worked on a lawsuit where we were doing work 
for both sides of the case. And, of course, the other side 
didn’t know we were working on it, but we did because 
we knew what the case was. The fastest way | know of 
to go out of business would be to mention even the 
general topic that you were doing for somebody. The 
fact that a particular company is getting into a new field 
is extremely confidential information. 
research is becoming a promising new self-em- 
ployment opportunity for liberal-arts educatees. 
The people who search data bases now will have 
an inside track into strange new information-shep- 
herding jobs in computer networks to come. How 
to get started? This book tells how. It also tells 
where to learn the skills and sell them once you’ve 
got them. 
— Art Kleiner 
4 
Neither the client nor the fee-based information service 
owns the information. Information belongs to the public 
and is not “sold” by the fee-based information service to 
the client. What is sold is the expertise required to gather 
information for a client. 
petition) is doing. It would also be a good place to 
shop for brokers if you need the following kinds of 
help: locating documents, tracking votes, compiling 
bibliographies, uncovering technical research, 
indexing a book, or translating 
text. It’s indexed by subject, serv- 
ice, and state. 
— Kevin Kelly 
Organization: 
® 
Address: 
Many magazines have a letters to the 
editor column containing comments 
and corrections from readers, as well 
as errata from past issues. These 
columns are a rich and little-recog- 
nized source of additional and hard- 
to-find information. Because they go 
unrecorded by some indexing firms, 
it's worthwhile to leaf through the 
next several issues following the 
issue(s) containing pertinent articles 
uncovered in your research. 
—Information Broker 
Telephone: 
Contact: 
Subjects: 
Services: 
businesses, an 
production, 
Mind Your Own Business 
(A Guide for the Information Entrepreneur) 
Alice Warner 
1987; 165 pp. 
$24.95 
($27.95 postpaid) from: 
Neal-Schuman Publishers, Inc. 
23 Leonard Street 
New York, NY 10013 
212/925-8650 
or Whole Earth Access 
The economics of information flow is still awaiting 
its Keynes, yet the micro-economics of information 
brokering is clearer: it’s a marginal operation. 
Information wants to be free... , says Stewart 
Brand. Which means making a living by brokering 
information is like trying to get rich selling refrigera- 
tors to Eskimos. You’re selling features. 
... But information also wants to be expensive, 
finishes Stewart. That means you need marketing 
strategies, business plans, and capitalization fora 
service with no tangible product, no inventory, and 
no price. (Let’s see. Should this be free or 
$1000?) 
The advice in this book assumes you are a librar- 
ian or entrepreneur-to-be who already knows how 
to tap information. Check out this source for a 
concise lesson in the strange business of selling 
customers stuff you don’t own. 
—Kevin Kelly 
4 
Online searching can be done for a flat fee. This can be 
perilous, but it is a good deal easier to sell for a flat fee 
than to sell by the we-can't-tell-until-we-get-into-it 
method. Also there is no penalty for being fast and 
smart; as one searcher says, “It may take only five 
minutes of my time, but it saves the client hundreds and 
he or she should pay for it.” 
a 
“We are expanding into other wide open areas. We 
haven't done much database searching because some- 
one else up here does it well and | refer. But there are 
other areas, such as document delivery (we're near the 
state capital), which could work for us. The number of 
opportunities are endless; this did not appear so when | 
began.” 
The Private Librarian 
P.O. Box 83231, Fairbanks, AK 99708 USA 
(907) 479-6224 
Joan Soutar 
Alaska, Genealogy 
Bibliographies, Library Development, Mailing List Production, Newsletter 
Production. 
Since 1985, the pameary oal of The Private Librarian has been to provide individuals, small 
non-profit organizations with confidential and individualized library 
service. PL answers quick fact queries, provides topical research and provides bibli- 
ographies, and assists persons with their own research. The Private Librarian and staff will 
set up and maintain s 
companies and organizations. Another service is research and development of specialized 
target mailing 
lists. This function includes computerized address maintenance and label 
laskan topics are thelr specialty, and staff will travel in state for on-site re- 
search, Service {is timely and thorough. 
cial libraries and produce, index, and mail newsletters for 
ARIZONA 
—Directory Fee-Based Info Service 
