Organic Gardening & Farming Magazine 
| was ready to give up on growing corn any earlier. 
Then one day when | was trying to figure out what 
| should do with a stack of corrugated clear-plastic 
panels left by the former cwner of our home, | got 
an idea. Why not bend the panels to make covers 
over the rows of iiiy early corn? The plastic would 
make a sort of miniature greenhouse over the plants, 
keeping out cold air but letting sunlight flood in to 
warm the soil. Furthermore, the panels would keep 
out pesky crows, blackbirds and rabbits. 
A monthly information exchange among gar- 
deners who do not use artificial fertilizers or 
poisonous insecticides. Keeps you current on 
new techniques and discoveries. 
J.l. Rodale & staff 
1968; 1145 pp. 
$10.19 postpaid 
from 
Rodale Books, Inc. 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 19049 
The ads are valuable, telling you where to get 
seeds, farm machinery, etc. 
| save tall fruit-juice cans for protecting transplants, 
The idea worked like a charm. 
and like them also for their electroculture value. 
Last year, after shading my broccoli and collards 
against transplanting shock, | left the cans between 
the rows in an experiment with electroculture. Soon 
the cans were hidden by lush growth, the plants 
reaching 3 feet or more. 
or 
Reports on new equipment: 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
When we called, the Gilson team was taking the 
wraps off a highly-experimental, pint-sized shredder. 
It has avery low center of gravity, is extremely 
mobile and light. Powered by a 3-h.p. engine, the 
Gilson composter features an idler clutch and an 
effective mixing and cutting chamber. 
Wuip or Toncur Grarr: This 
appears to be the best method where 
the stock and scion are close to the 
same thickness. When the stock that is 
to be grafted is greater than 34-inch 
in diameter, 
it is best to 
use some 
other 
form 
of grafting 
because 
it 
-would be very difficult to make the 
proper cuts with the grafting tools. 
And editorials: 
When you look at a plant growing in your garden, 
you do not see at once all the things which make it 
possible for that plant to thrive. But no living thing 
on this planet grows in isolation. Plants, animals, 
insects and people are all linked together in a web 
of life, with air, water, soil, minerals and other 
natural resources also playing vital parts. There is 
acycle, arhythm, to life. 
One lesson that we are now learning is that the web 
of life is made of very fine strands. Upsetting the 
life patterns of only one type of plant or animal, 
even in a small way, can have an effect on many 
other living things. 
Organic Gardening & Farming 
$5.85 for one year , monthly 
$0.60 per copy 
from 
Rodale Books, Inc. 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 19049 
Urganic Gardening 
This book has another quality one does not always find in 
gardening manuals: it is well organized. 
The first part is 
about the soil; the second part is about vegetables, the third . 
part is about fruit, and the closing pages are devoted to nut 
culture and herbs. 
/n the month that | have had my copy ot “How to Grow 
Vegtables and Fruits by the Organic Method,” | have 
browsed in it and refered to it for so many different 
reasons, out of so many different moods, that | can’t 
decide if its resting place on the shelf is among my other 
“how-to’’ books or somewhere between the poetry and 
books on oriental religion. 
In Section one, there are chapters on how to improve the sail; 
make compost; start plants from seed; watering and irrigation; 
when to harvest; fall and winter gardening; controlling insects; 
greenhouse gardening. 
Section two looks closely at some 100 vegetables, givinga 
| 
page to each vegetable, artichokes through zucchini, and what 
amounts to a brief essay that describes the history, vitamin 
content and how to raise each individual vegetable. 
Another section does the same with some sixty varieties of 
North American fruit, from apples and apricots to water- 
melons and youngberries. 
But! 
shall worry about that problem when the time comes, 
if it does. Right now I’m digging into it so often and with 
such delight it doesn’t need a place on a shelf. | keep it in 
handy reach on the dining room table. 
This book is the definitive manual on organic gardening. 
It is loaded with information, 550,000 words spread over 
926 pages. It is wonderfully illustrated with pictures that 
are precise and useful, as well as pleasing to the eye. Ina 
pleasant, relaxed prose style, the style of people who obi 
viously have spent more time in the garden than in the lib-_ 
rary but who at the same time are so confident of what 
they’re saying their words ring hard and true, the editors 
of this manual have gathered together every fact that one 
would need to know to become a successful organic gardener, 
almost anywhere in the United States. 
/n addition, there are scores of charts and graphs that pro- 
vide a complete planting guide for all the listed vegtables 
and fruits. Each geographical region of the United States 
and its peculiarities are accounted for. One table, for 
instance, is titled, “Planning Guide for a Family of Five in 
Washington.’ Categories of information for gardening in 
Washington include planting dates, growing period, length 
of the garden row, amount of seed, depth to plant, distance 
between rows, and distance between plants. 
Vitamin Losses 
Vegetables to be cooked should be handled in the same manner as saiad 
vegetables. 
Gather immediately before using or else wash, dry and store 
in a cool place. If they are left at room temperature and in the light, much 
folic acid, vitamin B, and 50 per cent or more of the vitamin C in most 
_fresh vegetables can be lost in a few hours. 
Inoculate Garden Legumes 
_ 
If you are planning to grow any beafis, peas or peanuts in your garden 
this spring, why not take time out to inoculate the seed with nitrogen-gathering 
bacteria? It will certainly be worth your while. 
A Tier-Shelf Bed for Mushrooms 
, 
4. 
Atcing 
LRT 4 
6.655 Large Rock, 
1"@ Top Soil 
$QO Small Rocks 
q 
Mix-compost, 
Top Soil, Leaf Mould, 
 3-in heat Mulch 
of nature. 
3 com 1-in Compost 
+ 
Large Tin Can 
Encyclopedia of Organic Gardening 
The Encyclopedia of Organic Gardening 
-_on latest information on the subject. 
The entire book is that detailed on every subject it takes up. 
: 
One need not, however, intend raising food for a family of 
five before this book can be useful to you, and a pleasure. 
— 
/ find it absolutely stimulating just as reading matter. It’s” 
pleasing in the way that thumbing through a catalog filled 
— 
with delights you crave can be pleasing. Browsing in this — 
book reminds one of fundamental things, of soil and water — 
and air, and one’s own involvement in the natural scheme 
— 
of the world. The book is beautiful in the way that native 
crafts are beautiful: it’s alive aesthetically at the same time 
that it’s useful. That’s more than one can say about most — 
novels. | own very few books Id rather have than this one. 
! recommend it to gardeners of all shapes and sizes, and to 
aware people in.general who enjoy reading books whose 
— 
themes, images and‘metaphors are drawn from the world — 
But we are more concerned here with the ’’meat-eaters’’—birds whi 
prefer to eat millions of insect life. A few birds prefer an 
all-i 
Edited by J. 
1. RODA 
; 
ix 
A permanent reference book, compiled from 
years of magazine issues. How to plant, 
: 
cultivate, fertilize and harvest. Thousands of 
subjects: composting, mulching, soil acidity, 
pruning, vegetables, fruit and nut trees, insect 
— 
control, earthworms, etc. 
/ cross-reference anything useful in the maga- J 
zine with the Encyclopedia, this keeps me up — 
The Encyclopedia and ‘How to Raise Fruits 
and Vegetables by the Organic Method’ (below) 
are both indispensable: the formerhasmany _ 
more subjects, the latter goes into greater 
; 
detail. 
[Suggested by Lama Foundation] 
— 
How to Grow 
Vegetables 
— 
and Fruits. 
by the 
- Organic Method 
from: 
— 
Mapa 
Rodale Books, Inc. 
33 East Minor St 
Emmaus, Penna 
CATALOG — 
[Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
; 
(ixture~ Compost, 
Peat Moss, Lea$ Mould, 
A 
Top Soil, Phosphate Rock 
ae 
3 feet——— 
Several “secrets” are involved in this diagram 
In addition to digging an outsize hole and us: 
ing the large center stone, you also mulch with 
rocks and leaves and install adequate drainage. 
Phosphote Rock 
-10 4-in Drain Tile 
diet. They include barn swallows, swifts, house wrens, gratcatchers 
flycatchers, brown creepers and some of the several species of warble 
Their bills are long and straight, or long and curved; or they may be 
short and whiskered; whippoorwills and the nighthawk family belong 
to this group. 
: 
fa 
4 OW 
