ae 
ee 
Champagne Living on a Beer Budget 
/f your vision of an alternate life style includes a dome in the 
mountains, raising your own food and making your own 
clothes from homespun wool, you probably ought to pass 
this book up and wait til somebody writes Beer Living On A 
Bay-Rum Budget. 
But if you are pioneering in or near a city, and if money passes 
through your hands with some regularity, if, that is, you 
consider yourself what | have come to think of as a ‘suburban 
guerrilla,’ then Champagne Living On A Beer Budget would 
be a handy tool to have around your camp. 
(Someday, after I’ve lived in the suburbs longer, Id like to 
write an essay about my vision of the suburban guerrilla. He’s 
a definite phenomenon. 
There’s a sizeable population of them 
here in the San Francisco Bay area, men and women out to 
enjoy the advantages of town life without paying the custom- 
ary penalties. Every suburban guerrilla probably has his own 
definition of himself, but my own sense of him is this: he 
has a job, but not a career. He likes the comforts, but doesn’t 
want to go into debt for them. He makes distinctions between 
things that are good and things that are merely expensive. He 
may go in for elegance, or he may dig the funky scene. 
Hippies, after all, are urban guerrillas. But hippies are kids 
mainly grooving on each other in special enclaves; and that 
isn’t quite w'sat I‘m talking about. I’m talking about people 
‘who see the possibility of a rich and abundant adult life 
within the context of those same suburban communities 
generally condemned as such hopeless wastelands that ‘real’ 
life cannot be supported there. 
The suburban guerrilla | have 
in mind is of the suburbs, as well as in them. 
He challenges the assumption that the suburban context is 
hard, absolute, impenetrable, like plastic. To him, more 
like a piece of cheesecloth, full of holes to breathe through, 
and to wind in and out of, like a morning glory, or a pole bean. 
He borrows much of his point of view from the orientals. He 
realizes that life goes on in the suburbs just like every other 
place, even if most of the people there are too blind and deaf 
to see and hear it. The guerrilla lives by his wits, one day at 
atime. 
This makes him.alert and alive. He has a talent for 
cultivating the holes in his cheesecloth. One hole might 
simply be the way the world is at six a.m. Another might be 
first-hand knowledge of all the footpaths in the neighborhood. 
He creates his freedom here and there and now and then, and 
by diligence winds up with as much as any conscious man 
Unity Buying Service 
All my life | heard about factory prices, always 
mentioned in hushed tones or resentful tones, 
depending on whether one had been obtained 
or not. But! never saw one in person til this 
catalog came along, and, by god, there they are: 
factory prices, half or two-thirds of store prices. 
This catalog has slick pictures of mostly slickery 
items, with a truthful store prices, and then— 
over here in this plain jane book—the factory 
prices for same. 
You add 5%, order, wait two 
weeks, and here comes all right stuff, righteous 
cheap. 
[Suggested by Muldoon Elder] 
2417A420 
Kodak Carousels are THE standard of the image 
projection world. We've seen nowhere a better 
price than here. 
© KODAK 800 CAROUSEL PROJECTOR WITA 5” F/3.5 LENS 
Has 11 basic 
features plus fully automatic remote slide control: focus; advance; reverse; stop 
slides by 12 ft. cord. Automatic slide change at 5, 8, or 15 second intervals for 
unattended continuous projection. Slide change, forward and reverse by buttons 
at projector. 4 position switch including Hi-Low brightness control. Ship. wt. 
19 Ibs. 
Shove 
3698A11740 
$154.50 
SAME AS ABOVE WITH 4’’ TO 6’ ZOOM LENS. 
3699A13640 
chew 
$179.50 
@) KODAK 850 CAROUSEL PROJECTOR WITH 5” F/2.8 LENS 
Incorporates 
11 basic projector features with automatic focus. Focuses slides automatically 
after the first slide. 3 way slide control. Remote—thange, forward, reverse, stop 
by 12 ft. cord, push button controls at the projector and automatically at 5, 8, 
or 15 second intervals. Tungstan-halogen (quartz) lamp for longer life. Ship. wt. 
19 Ibs. 
3700A13640 
there 
$179.50 
SAME AS ABOVE WITH 4’” TO 6” ZOOM LENS. 
3701A15540 
shove 
$204.50 
56 
A HEAVY DUTY SWIVEL BASE MACHIN- 
IST’S VISE Jaws 4” wide open to 312’’. Ship. wt. 
13 Ibs. Size: 9% x 5% x 532. 
anywhere. His landscape is small and patterned, but there are 
discoveries to be made on it, discoveries that can feed his own 
life at the same time they are important to the culture. | 
know of one elderly couple that subsists almost entirely on 
the food they raise in their organic garden in the backyard 
of their home in suburban Menlo Park. As far as I’m con- 
cerned, the trip those two people are on, the life they are 
proving possible, is the most inspiring radical activity in all of 
San Francisco’s radical environs). 
One needn‘t romanticize his life as much as all that, however, 
to find the book we're talking about a worthwhile manual. 
Anybody interested in bargains ought to have it. It’s loaded 
with facts, tips and information on good deals in all the 
important categories. Food, clothing, shelter, real estate, 
automobiles, household appliances, medical things, taxation, 
funerals, recreation, retirement, consumer co-ops, travel, 
babies, insurance, charities, and more. 
It’s entertain¢ngly 
written; yet the rhetoric never gets in the way of the informa- 
tion. The people who wrote it obviously want to beat the 
money rap as much as any of us. They also want to live well. 
Their book will be of considerable help to other people trying 
to do both, simultaneously. 
! Reviewed by Gurney Norman } 
| Hl to Be te Best far iss 
Champagne Living on a Beer Budget 
Mike aad Marilyn Ferguson 
1968; 247 pp. 
$0.75 postpaid 
from 
G. P. Putnam’‘s Sons 
200 Madison Ave. 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
For adollar a year, you can subscribe to Our Public Lands, a quarterly 
magazine telling how to buy public lands, where to hunt, fish, or camp; 
also details of ‘Alaskan opportunities.’ Order from the Superintendent 
of Documents, Washington, D. C. 20402 
Finally we called eight establishments under Typewriters, Rental. 
For comparable models of a Smith-Corona electric portable, two 
companies wanted $25 per month; two wanted $22.50; three were 
asking $20; one, $15; one, $12.50. We finally rented a nearly new 
machine from a firm that charged $9 monthly on a two-month basis. 
Unity 
Stowe 
$7.95 $2.90 + 5% = $3.05 
® Office-size, 
84-character keyboard 
; 
® Touch-Set margin 
controls 
® Calibrated paper bail 
® Rugged, 
all-metal construction 
Unity 
$97.85 + 5% = $102.74 
Economy portable, comes 
with your choice of Pica 
or Elite type styles. 
Convenient 
5d 
“console” carrying 
cover included. 
Shipping weight 11 Ibs, 
Attractive smooth 
gray finish. 
Stowe 
6976A3900 
Pica 
$49.95 
6977A3900 
Elite 
$49.95 
Unity 
$32.44 + 5% = $34.06 
$113.69 + 5% = $119.37 
$113.69 + 5% = $119.37 
$129.51 + 5% = $135.99 
Unity Buying Service 
es. 
costs | think $5.00 
for membership 
from 
Unity Buying Service, Inc. 
Mount Vernon, N. Y. 10551 
‘Overexposed steaks’ are a find for those who will literally look beyond 
the surface of things. The fluorescent lighting used in grocery store 
meat shelves darkens the steaks quite rapidly. Once a steak turns 
maroon, it’s usually marked down by 25 percent or so—and it’s fine. 
Some expensive canned fruits, like Elberta peaches and fine Bartlett 
pears, can be bought in cans of ‘chunks and pieces’ for a fourth or less 
than you'd pay for canned halves. 
Or, if you'd rather, the National Association of Housing Cooperatives, 
Inc., invites your query. Address: 465 Grand Street, New York City, 
N. Y. 10002. Latest information on new cooperatives would be 
available from the United Housing Foundation, same address; or from 
the Association for Middle |ncome Housing, 217 Park Row, New York; 
or the FHC Company, 322 Main, Stamford, Conn. (FHC International, 
1001 15th Street NW, Washington, D.C., is an affiliate of the FHC 
Company and helps develop housing cooperatives overseas. 
Homes in the paths of proposed freeways have usually been bought 
— 
by the city or county and are rented on an annual lease basis until 
time for demolition. Friends of ours are renting a $30,000 home for : 
$85 a month—until the bulldozers claim it. They simply called the 
| 
city switchboard and asked to speak to someone about renting city- 
county-owned homes. 
Homes being rented are often not due for demolition for eight or ten 
- 
years, They’re bought up far in advance of need so there won’t be 
last-minute snags or holdouts. 
Avoid the cheap $10-$17 brake jobs advertised by some service 
stations and shops, At the price, the linings are most likely of inferior 
quality, and wheel cylinders won’t be rebuilt 
When it comes to air travel you can avail yourself of bargains if you ‘MN: 
fly major airlines on weekdays, regional airlines on weekends...fly by — 
night...forgo the two glasses of champagne in first-class quarters.. .buy! 
a ‘run-of-the-airline’ ticket on a regional western carrier if you live in’ 
the eastern half of the country...travel to Europe in off-seasons...fly 
a triangle, with a stop at an intermediate glamour city thrown in for 
a few dollars extra...travel 
a heavy-volume, frequently scheduled 
commuter flight...forgo reservations and fly for half fare, on a standby 
basis, On at least one airline...or register as a first-time airline rider on 
another and 
make any round trip in the system for $25...buy a nae 
age which ‘wraps up hotel, entertainment, and air fare. 
To locate a Memorial society in your area, or for heaseaeie: informa- 
tion, write to: 
: 
Continental Association 
39 East Van Buren Street 
Chicago, III. 60605 
For $1, this nonprofit organization will send you A Manual of Simple 
Burial (64 pages). 
For 25 cents, the Continental Association will send you Memorial 
Associations: What They Are and How They are Organized. The 
association will also be happy to inform you if any societies are newly 
active in your area. 
FACTORY 
COST 
FALL BSS 
through 
SEBMER 
198E 
33 QMBWIOR, 1. 
a 
@ DRAFTSMAN’S DRAWING SET Deluxe mech- 
anical drawing set is an invaluable aid for everyone: 
student; artist; instructor; etc. 19 professional qual- 
ity tools packed in a smart leatherette case. Special 
straightening devic. on compass’ and dividers. Set 
contains: 1-6’’ compass; 1-41/2’’ compass; 5¥%4’’ ruling, 
pen; 6’ Swedish 
detail ruling pen; 6” hairspring 
divider; 5’ drop bow with pen and pencil parts; 
3%" steel spring bow pen, pencil and divider with 
center screw. Case size: 12 x 5% x 1’. 
stove 
6277A1650 
Ship. wt. 2 lbs. 
$26.00 
Unity 
$12.25 + 5% = $12.86 
