Human Use of the Earth 
To get a handle on your future youve got to get outside your- 
. self, because only from outside can you see your space-time 
environment whole. One way is to identify out into another 
culture, Indian or whatever (this is Jim Nixon’s idea). Another 
way is to take Philip Wagner’s trip into fascinated objectivity 
about Earthly doings. In this book he merges some of the 
best of geographical and anthropologicle perspectiveinto a 
detailed treatise on the Earth as tool, how it is used and how 
to understand it better to use it better. 
We have established Standard Orbit around a culturally 
active planet. Science Officer Wagner peers into the tricorder 
and intones: 
The Human Use of the Earth 
from 
Philip Wagner 
fe Press é 
1960; 270 pp. 
acmillan 
Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
: 
Riverside, New Jersey 08075 
$1 .95 postpaid 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Man lives as a member of natural communities. 
Being an animal, man 
is at least indirectly dependent upon plants for sustenance. He dwells 
in very intimate association with other animals and plants, and with 
other men, and is fully involved in the intricate complex of mutual 
relationships that runs through all of nature. 
Symbiotic relations are those in which the life processes of one 
organism are in some essential way dependent upon other organisms. 
They may be either obligate relations, in which one individual cannot 
survive independently from other individuals, of the same or another 
kind; or facultative relations, in which an individual may, but need 
not, take advantage of the presence of some other organism to carry 
on its life processes. Using a broad conception of symbiosis, we shall 
speak of it as including 1) predation, in which an individual destroys 
members of its own or another species in seeking its own livelihood; 
2) parasitism, in which an individual lives at the expense of other 
organisms without providing direct benefits to them; 3) mutualism, 
in which both individuals involved derive benefit from the relation; 
and 4) commensalism, in which two or more species or individuals 
of One species depend upon the same habitat conditions, which one 
or both may help to maintain. 
The third and closest form of symbiosis among humans is full 
‘mutualism,’ which we can equate with constitution of a single 
economy. There are three possible degrees of symbiosis among men: 
1) those in which the mutual relationship which is the economy is 
much smaller in scope than the society (subsistence); 2) those in 
which there is a facultative mutual connection between the basic 
livelihood unit and the larger social group (peasant economies); and 
3) those in which the limits of the economic unit and the social unit 
coincide, and the full obligate mutual relationship prevails through- 
out (commercial economy). 
The Sciences of the Artificial 
Simon says: we have generalized methods of obtaining 
elegant information from nature. We don’t have generalized 
methods of making elegant things to add to nature; we lack 
a science of design. He’s right and he doesn’t waste much 
time being right, but proceeds to make useful suggestions — 
lots of them probably wrong and useful anyway. His notion 
of sub-system stability in evolution is beautiful. 
Manufacture adds vastly to the wealth upon which men can draw by 
making more things usable. 
It confers the status of resources upon 
things that are of no benefit to any other animal. 
Those same features of the most complex human communities which 
indicate their ecological advantages also suggest an unusual degree of 
inherent ecological risk. Such communities are complex and delicate- 
ly balanced, and depend utterly upon their artificiality. They and 
the individuals in them are threatened by the same biological 
penalties that attend any highly specialized system or species, Their 
very technical perfection may destroy them in time as other high 
specializations have destroyed many former species of animals and 
plants. 
THE HUMAN USE 
OF THE EARTH 
PHILIP WAGNER 
An examination 
of the interaction 
between man and his 
physical environment 
| The individual organism must, on the one hand, be specialized 
enough in function to exploit some particular conditions in the 
habitat, so as to occupy a niche that no other organism can contest 
with it; and it must, on the other hand, possess enough versatility to 
adapt to any conditions of environment that may impinge upon its 
life activities. These two requirements may be thought of as polar 
- extremes of a continuous scale, and every species may be placed 
somewhere along the scale between specialization and versatility. 
Some of the disadvantages of commitment to either specialization or 
versatility are overcome by aggregation of organisms into larger groups 
within the community. 
Redistribution is a necessary condition and an essential feature of 
government, and governments always exercise a redistributive function. 
— 
There is some similarity between the hostile economic intercourse 
discussed earlier and the redistributive relation, for both depend 
7 
upon the employment or potential threat of force, The redistributive 
function specifically depends, however, upon a monopoly of force, 
and on an institutional relation established within a society. The 
regular and exclusive use of redistributive power by an agency organic 
to a given society is quite different from raids by enemies and the ~ 
Eskimos keep their igloos hot. The microclimatology of buildings is 
a vast and little-known subject, but we may surmise that the interior 
climate of most kinds of buildings used by different human groups 
is about as follows: temperature mostly equal to or above prevailing 
Outside temperature (except where thick walls are used, asin the 
Mediterranean area and Near East); humidity usually above the level 
of the open air; oxygen concentration considerably lower than 
outside, and carbon dioxide and other minor gases far more 
abundant; noxious odors very prevalent. 
activity of criminals, and governments make every effort to suppress _ 
competition from this quarter. Authentic redistributive agencies 
often invoke as much violence, however, and show as little respect 
for individual ‘rights’ and interests, as do criminals and predatory 
© 
raiders. Under both types of economy, goods and services are trans- 
ferred not in return for goods and services of equal value—there may 
be no concept of equal value in these cases—but in accordance with 
the specific obligations of one person toward another, of an individual 
toward the redistributive state or collectivity, of the collectivity in 
turn toward individuals. 
As we shall see, one of the strategies by which supplies of goods and 
services become available for actual use is the movement of the would- 
be consumers themselves to the sources of goods or services. There 
are even objects that act as containers of man himself, which move 
over land, across water or through the air, delivering the individual 
to the places at which he can obtain goods he desires, or where he 
will be served as he wishes. 
The modern inhabitant of a commercial country does not make his 
world; he buys it. The material circumstances of his life are not the 
outcome of his individual encounter with the natural order, but arise 
out of his relations with the social order. 
Ecologically speaking, even very primitive man is an extremely far- 
ranging creature. Men have migrated far more widely than almost 
any other animals. 
The Artifact as ‘Interface’ 
We can view the matter quite symmetrically. An artifact can be 
thought of as a meeting point—an ‘interface’ in today’s terms— 
between an ‘inner’ environment, the substance and organization of 
the artifact itself, and an ‘outer’ environment, the surroundings in 
which it operates, 
If the inner environment is appropriate to the 
outer environment, or vice versa, the artifact will serve its intended 
purpose. Thus, if the clock is immune to buffeting, it will serve as a 
ship’s chronometer. 
mounting it on the mantel at home.) 
A man, viewed as a behaving system, is quite simple. The apparent 
complexity of his behavior over time is largely a reflection of the 
complexity of the environment in which he finds himself. 
| should like to point to evidence that there are only a few ‘intrinsic’ 
characteristics of the inner environment of thinking man that limit 
the adaptation of his thought to the shape of the problem environ- 
ment. All else in his thinking and problem-solving behavior is 
artificial—is learned and is subject to improvement hou the 
invention of improved designs. 
From evidence obtained in other experiments, it has been estimated 
that only some seven items (or perhaps as few as two) can be held 
in the fast, short-term memory and that perhaps as many as five 
(And conversely, if it isn’t, we may salvage it by 
Man has been described as a ‘tool-using animal,’ but as is well known, 
many other higher mammals can employ natural objects spontane- 
ously as tools, Tool making, however, is peculiar to man. 
The Evolution of Complex Systems 
Let me introduce the topic of evolution with a parable. There once 
were two watchmakers, named Hora and Tempus, who manufactured 
very fine watches, Both of them were highly regarded, and the 
phones in their workshops rang frequently—new customers were 
— 
constantly calling them. However, Hora prospered, while Tempus 
became poorer and poorer and finally lost his shop. What was the 
reason? 
The watches the men made consisted of about 1,000 parts each, 
Tempus had so constructed his that if he had one partly assembled 
and had to put it down—to answer the phone, say—it immediately 
— 
fell to pieces and had to be reassembled from the elements, The 
better the customers liked his watches, the more they phoned him 
and the more difficult it became for him to find enough unin. 
time to finish a watch. 
The watches that Hora made were no less complex than those of 
Tempus. But he had designed them so that he could put together 
subassemblies of about ten elements each. Ten of these subassem- 
blies, again, could be put together into a larger subassembly; and a 
system of ten of the latter subassemblies constituted the whole 
watch. Hence, when Hora had to put down a partly assembled 
watch in order to answer the phone, he lost only a small part of his 
work, and he assembled his watches in only a fraction of the man- 
— 
hours it took Tempus. 
f 
seconds are required to transfer an item from the short-term to the 
long-term store. 
...all mathematical derivation can be viewed simply as change in 
representation, making evident what was previously true but 
Obscure. This view can be extended to all of problem solving— 
solving a problem simply means representing it so as to make the 
solution transparent. 
If the problem solving could actually be 
organized in these terms, the issue of representation would indeed 
become central. 
The Sciences of the Artificial 
from 
The M.I.T. Press 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
Herbert Simon 
1969; 123 pp. 
or 
$5.95 postpaid 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The time required for the evolution of a complex form from simple 
elements depends critically on the numbers and distribution of - 
potential intermediate stable forms. 
A little reflection reveals that cues signaling progress play the same 
~ 
role in the problem-solving process that stable intermediate forms 
— 
play in the biological evolutionary process. 
In fact, we can take 
over the watchmaker parable and apply it also to problem solving. 
© 
In problem solving, a partial result that represents recognizable 
progress toward the goal plays the role of a stable subassembly. — 
x 
\f a complex structure is completely unredundant—if no aspect of its 
structure can be inferred from any other—then it is its own simplest 
description. 
Most of the complex structures found in the world are enormously 
redundant, and we can use this redundancy to simplify their 
description. But to use it, to achieve the simplification, we must — 
find the right representation. 
L 
