Push Back the Desks 
Every effective teacher has had projects and ideas which 
really turned kids on, but most of them don’t take the time 
to write about just what it is that makes their classes 
remembered by former students as ‘one of the best years 
ever.’ Albert Cullum did, and his enthusiasm and involve- 
ment with his class of elementary kids over a twenty-year 
span spill over to the reader in a veritable flood of ideas, 
theories, and teacher war stories. He is explicit enough 
about his projects to make them instantly available to any 
admirer, but the major strength of the book is its ability to 
awaken a hundred or so related ideas in the teachers who 
read it. |t is teachers like Mr. Cullum who epitomize the best 
aspects and possibilities of the self-contained classroom for 
elementary school children. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Caro! Guyton Goodell.) 
Push Back the Desks 
from 
Citadel Press 
222 Park Avenue South 
New York, N. Y, 10003 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Albert Cullum 
1967; 223 pp. 
$2.00 postpaid 
Teacher 
Teacher is as unphoney, warm, and appealing as the grubby, 
tear streaked face of a child, it is also an important technical 
notebook for educators. Miss Ashton-Warner’s organic 
approach to reading and writing is a detailed enough account 
to be explored further by teachers anywhere. 
It is of especial 
value to teachers working with primary children. Students 
with a cultural or language barrier, and adult illiterates. 
{Suggested and reviewed by 
Carol Guyton Goodell.] 
Organic reading is not new. The Egyptian hieroglyphics were one- 
word sentences. 
Helen Keller's first word, ‘water,’ was a one-word 
book. Tolstoy found his way to it in his peasant school, while, out 
in the field of UNESCO today, it is used automatically as the only 
reasonable way of introducing r2ading to primitive people: 
ina 
famine area the teachers wouldn't think of beginning with any words: 
other than ‘crop,’ ‘soil,’ ‘hunger,’ ‘manure,’ and the like. 
e 
Backward readers have a private Key Vocabulary which once found 
launches them into reading. 
e 
The power content of a word can be determined better from a 
backward reader than from an average reader. 
In the presentation of key words to five-year-olds, illustrations are to 
be shunned rather than coveted. 
e 
The length of a word has no relation to its power content. 
e 
Why is sorrow in such disgrace in infant-room reading fare? Where 
are the wonderful words ‘kiss’ and ‘cry’? The exciting words ‘ghost’ 
and ‘darling’? Everyday words in European homes as well as Maori 
ones. 
@ 
In grown-up novels we enjoy the true conversational medium, yet five- 
year-olds for some inscrutable reason are met with the twisted idea 
behind ‘Let us play.’ As a matter of fact, Maoris seldom if ever use 
‘let’ in that particular setting. They say ‘We play, eh?’ 
e 
But there are two kinds of order, and which is the one we wish for? 
1s it the conscious order that ends up as respectability? Or is it the 
unconscious order that looks like chaos on the top? There is a separ- 
ate world on each side of this question mark. 
dvia Ashton-Warner 
Teacher 
An jaspered writer aod 2 nis 
BB 
sets lorth her uuprecedes 
teaching mnethies! 
and recipaics 
both. 
the Ble of icy 
fan HS ar heosbya cart 
Teacher 
| went Ls 
ee ond 
Sylvia Ashton-Warner 
ed 
row 
1963: 224 pp. 
a 
P i cass d 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
Fifa 
: Th 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Ur 
We were going to put some Piaget stuff 
about here in the CATALOG, but it’s 
hard to see where to begin with Piaget. 
Any suggestions? 
A sensitive teacher is always aware of the drama inherent in his class. 
Every class contains a cast ready to play their roles in every subject 
matter area, and the teacher, sensing the rhythm of his group, soon 
finds his role too. It is not necessary for the teacher always to play 
the lead; frequently he can do twice as well in a supporting role. 
Shakespeare may be for scholars to debate and discuss and philoso- 
phize over, but he is also for Corky, a fifth-grader who died beautifully 
as Julius Caesar. There are ‘murderers’ galore in the elementary 
schools ready to help Macbeth kill Banquo; many a fifth- and sixth- 
grade girl can really whip up a moment of insanity as Ophelia. 
Noise, noise, noise, yes. But if you don’ t like noise, don’t be a 
teacher. 
By organic | mean that way of growth where the strongest thing 
pushes up ahead of the less strong. | think of trees growing ina 
clump. The strongest get to the light. In speaking of a child’s mind 
— 
| mean the strongest impulses push up, irrespective of whether or not 
they should, at a given time. Making the behaviour of the children 
anything but an ordered one in the conscious meaning of the term 
order. 
| call it the abstract order because the pattern it makes is so 
mixed up, so unpredictable. That's how | come to relate the terms 
abstract and organic. They are associative. Natural includes them 
dead 
\hen 
baby 
She 
“ted 
mummie 
got it 
2 
| have found that children are interested in two things—doing and 
doing now. Children are looking for the unexpected, not the safe;- 
children are looking for noise and laughter, not quiet children are — 
looking for the heroic, not the common. 
How did we establish a feeling of New York City? We spread a lara 
ie | 
piece of brown wrapping paper on the floor, and almost everyone 
helped create the fabulous city. of millions by drawing window afte 
window. 
Z 
ie 
