The Shell 
This book has an effect on people similar to Tantra Art (see 
opposite). 
They tend to slam it shut. 
‘If | can’t look at this 
book with eight clear hours and 400 gamma in my 
blood- 
stream, | don’t want to look at all.” The photographs and 
the shells are both of outrageous perfection. 
The book 
demands: 
‘It’s all here. Are you al] there?’ 
Considering, the price is remarkably low. 
The left-handed chank mentioned above is an 
example of a phenomenon for which there is no 
scientific explanation, the shell of a normally right- 
handed species building contrary to nature’s 
established functions. These left-handed shells 
preserve to the minutest details everything necessary 
to the animal's well-being, and are in every way the 
exact mirror image of the normal shell. They are of 
great rarity and therefore very valuable. 
It may well 
be that the Hindu priest serving medicine in the 
holy shell (the left-handed chank, usually decorated 
with gold and precious stones) to an ailing member 
of his community has found the strength of belief 
that gives him the power to produce a miracle. 
Seeing the shell’s perfection in spite of its contrary 
conception, he is reminded of all the other wonders 
of creation and its greatness, and this mystical 
encouragement tends to give success to his perform- 
ance. 
 . 
Boe Hundred Sv ilion Sours of lnsmered Desion 
The Shell: 
Five Hundred Million Years of Inspired Design 
Hugh and Marguerite Stix 
and R. Tucker Abbott. 
Photographs H. Landshoff 
1969; 304 pp.; 188 plates 
$25.00 postpaid 
from 
Harry N. Abrams, Inc. 
c/o Newton K, Pincus 
6 West 57 Street 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
It It is known, of course, that the emperor of Japan 
is the foremost shell collector of the land; this makes 
shell collecting not only fashionable but also stimu- 
lates people of all social levels to competition. We 
shall never forget visiting the house of a notable 
collector-scientist in Kyoto whose vast collection, 
it was whispered, was more complete than the 
emperor's. 
(Such statements, naturally, are never 
made aloud.) The dignity of his home, with its 
doors wide open to the gardens all around, seemed 
to make it literally a ‘museum without walls.’ We 
vividly recall the simple austerity of the setting as 
we knelt or sat on the matted floor around our wise 
and friendly host, a company of four brought 
together by a common interest. New and beautiful 
shells were brought in constantly by the master’s 
disciples, disappearing swiftly after we had admired 
them to make place for still more beautiful shells. 
Certain rare shells were delicately lifted from their 
boxes by our host and placed on a low table before 
us. When this happened, the conversation of the 
Japanese ceased and everyone contemplated the 
piece with intense interest. The atmosphere, 
beginning in a relaxed mood, had now become 
ceremonial. 
— 
Three hours and thousands of shells later when we 
took our leave, we felt ourselves enriched and 
refreshed by an experience of mysterious spiritual 
strength. Still under the spell of the ritualistic 
contemplation of the shells, we groped awkwardly 
for words of thanks, the interpreter making no 
attempt to translate 
what we were trying to say. 
Apparently our host understood perfectly. His 
indulgent smile seemed to tell us, ‘Don’t thank me, 
thank the shells,’ What he said in reality was, ‘You 
have not seen half my collection.’ 
by the outcome of either. 
A Year From Monday 
‘The question is: Is my thought changing? It is and it isn't. One 
evening after dinner | was telling friends that | was now concerned 
with improving the world. One of them said: | thought you always 
were. 
| then explained that | believe—and am acting upon—Marshall 
McLuhan’s statement that we have through electronic technology 
produced an extension of our brains to the world formerly outside 
of us. To me that means that the disciplines, gradual and sudden 
(principally Oriental), formerly practiced by individuals to pacify 
their minds, bringing them into accord with ultimate reality, must 
now be practiced socially—that is, not just inside our heads, but out- 
side of them, in the world, where our central nervous system now is. 
This has brought it about that the work and thought of Buckminster 
Fuller is of prime importance to me. He more than any other to my 
knowledge sees the world situation—all of it— clearly and has fully 
reasoned projects for turning our attention away from “‘killingry”’ 
toward “‘livingry.”.......... 
Everything we come across is to the 
point. 
Living underground because 
there was no money. 
Arizona land and air 
permitted making mounds, covering them with 
cement, excavating te produce rooms, 
providing these with skylights. 
For 
anyone approaching, the community was 
invisible. 
Cacti, desert plants: the 
land seemed undisturbed. 
Quantity 
(abundance) changes what’s vice, 
Selfishness is out; 
(Waste’s 
what’s virtue. 
carelessness is in. 
A Year 
From Monday 
‘YEAR FROM MC NDA 
John Cage 
1963; 167 pp. 
$1 95 postpaid 
from 
; 
Wesleyan University 
Press 
Middletown, Conn. 
06457 
or 
WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
to wait. 
XXXVI. 
Weather feels good. 
Isn’t. 
More rain is needed. 
Water. 
He played two games, winning one, losing 
the other. 
totally involved in each game, unmoved 
What's the 
nature of his teaching? 
He was continually himself, 
For one 
thing: devotion (practice gives evidence 
of it). 
For another: not just 
playing half the game but playing all of 
it (having a view that includes that of 
the opponent 
). 
Suddenly a clam rose to 
