th 
Sparks’ Self-Hypnosis. So we are. 
hink of the time you wish to ‘wake up.’ 
‘Formulate your suggestion. 
ance-Induction Procedure 
xh 
3 
: 
imagine ‘1000-1’, the symbol for evoking tiredness 
the 
eyelids. 
_ Image ‘1000-2’, the symbol for evoking eye- 
magine ‘1000-3’, the symbol for relaxation. 
3. Imagine ‘1000-4’, the symbol for emotional 
ranquillity. 
ra 
; 
|, Imagine ‘1000-5’, the symbol denoting ‘hyper- 
suggestibility’. 
Imagine a circle enclosing an ’X’, then carefully. 
). Imagine, one by one, the letters of the alphabet, as 
writing ‘A’ in the circle, then erasing it, etc. 
Hypnosis is a marvelous means of effecting and main- 
Buy Painfree and symptom-free state of being, 
Bi 
ne fact that it must never be used for this 
se until the exact causes of the symptoms are 
lined cannot be overemphasized. 
Once the causes are clearly understood there are a 
number of different procedures that may be used. 
se 
May be classified in a general way as sugges- 
ns for: well-being, anesthesia, analgesia, dissocia- 
n, é 
d symptom-substitution. 
ycho-cybernetics 
his strange and gaudy volume will probably 
| 
you off 
if you associate wisdom with sub- 
writing or humble exposition. However, 
can overcome your initial resistence to 
f igh-pressure, breezy Style and the some- 
mes excessive claims, it will be worth the 
Dr. Maltz has outlined perhaps the 
t program of personality development 
odification in print. It is easy because 
contains nothing but the suggested exercises 
the understanding that the motivation to 
oa 
ge is still the most powerful tool. 
_ is not 2 book to read. It is a kit of tools 
use 
in gaining control of your nature for 
atever ends you desire. The author has 
de it clear that there is no virtue in being 
bscure or even in being poetic if it detracts 
from 
getting the reader off his ass and doing 
son ething about himself. 
2 is an assumption of a higher self or a 
@ to one’s being which tends toward reali- 
ion or whatever term you prefer but under- 
ng of this inner nature is not vital to 
‘PSYCHO- 
CYBERNETICS 
A New Technique for Using Your 
SUBCONSCIOUS POWER 
By 
MAXWELL MALTZ, mo.r1cs. 
Foreword by 
MELVIN POWERS 
Based on an amanng new scientific innovation, 
this simple yet practical "New Way of 
Life” can be the most important 
influence in your lle! 
Truck Store, saw Lecron’s Self Hypnotism 
vid that it was sure enough a good book about 
hypnotism, but for technique we'd be better 
{Suggested by Bob Lochridge.] 
n acomfortable place and with eyes fixed straight 
ea 
“We are now going to assume that you are at the 
stage of 1000-5 and that we have made the suggestion 
that your right hand is going to move up toward 
your face, and when your fingers touch your face 
you will go deeper than ever 
before. While you are 
very deep | will go over the pattern again, and from 
then on you will be able to put yourself into a deep 
trance whenever it is safe for you to do so. You will 
be able to go deep any time you wish. Quickly and 
easily as long as it is safe. Deeper each time. 
“| want you to think about your right hand now. 
Notice how it feels. Everyone has sensations going 
on in his hands continuously, but usually we don’t 
notice these sensations. We have no need to notice 
them. Now, | want you to notice your right hand. 
Think about how it feels. 
Think about whether it feels warm or cool. Think 
about whether it feels light or heavy. Notice whether 
or not you can feel the pulse beating in your hand 
or fingers. Ina little while, perhaps already, there 
will be a sensation of lightness in your hand and arm. 
Your hand will keep getting lighter and lighter and 
it will be drawn up to your face. When your fingers 
gently touch your face you will go very deep. Deeper 
each time. Deeper than before. 
“Keep thinking about your hand. Your fingers may 
have a tendency to twitch or move a little. This 
just means you are going deeper. This is what we 
want. Now | want you to think of your hand being 
a little bit higher than it is. Picture your hand a little 
Self-Hypnosis 
bit higher and, as you do, it becomes that way. Now 
Laurance Sparks 
picture yourself writing the word ‘lighter’ on a black- 
1962; 254 pp. 
board. Each time you write the word ‘lighter’ your 
$2.00 postpaid 
hand moves up higher, a little higher each time. 
It 
keeps moving higher and higher with each breath. 
Picture the image of your hand a little higher alter- 
After she achieved a self-induced trance , | explained 
to her that she would see a movie that she had seen 
years ago, that it would be very 
clear and vivid and that she would see it upon a sig- 
nal of snapping my fingers. 
| made a mistake, which 
had to do with the realization that | had neglected 
to give her certain instructions, and inadvertently 
snapped my fingers before explaining to her about 
the second signal. Imagine my surprise when she 
immediately woke up! | felt rather provoked with 
myself until | noticed her amazed expression, and 
she said, ‘Why, that’s the most interesting thing 
that ever happened to me!” 
“What happened?” 
| asked, not knowing quite what 
to expect. 
“| just saw Gone With the Wind,” she replied, 
laughing. 
“How much of it did you see?” 
“| saw the whole thing from beginning to end. It 
was even better than | remembered.” 
While | was still trying to figure out what had 
happened, she was telling me at great length about 
the picture. 
| found it hard to believe that she had 
really seen the whole picture, or even a small part 
of it, in such a short instant of time. But she con- 
vinced me by describing every detail of the opening 
scenes and dialogue, and continuing with vivid word- 
for-word reproduction as if she had just come from 
the theatre. 
Better, in fact, than if she had. 
It was 
clear that she had experienced imagery of the most 
vivid kind imaginable of a two-and-one-half hour 
Picture in the time it took to snap my fingers—not 
between two signals; just during one srap! 
from 
nately with writing the word ‘lighter’ on the 
Wilshire Book Company 
8721 Sunset Blvd. 
Hollywood, CA 90069 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Whatever may be your purpose in developing self- 
hypnosis, you must put that purpose to one side 
temporarily and keep it separate from the develop- 
ment process itself! Think of self-hypnosis as a tool 
that you can use in various ways after you have 
developed it, but in order to use it you must first 
create it. You will find it far easier to develop this 
tool with suggestions that are ‘neutral’ than with 
those that are more emotionally meaningful, because 
the very significance of your major purpose would 
be inhibitive to your progress. This cannot be over- 
emphasized. 
Psycho-cybernetics 
Maxwell Maltz, M.D. 
1960; 256 pp. 
$1 .00 postpaid 
from: 
Essandess Special Editions 
Simon & Schuster 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10020 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
What we need to understand is that these habits, 
unlike addictions, can be modified, changed, or 
reversed, simply by taking the trouble to make a 
conscious decision — and then by practicing or 
“acting out’’ the new response or behavior. 
Simple? Yes. But each of the above habitual ways 
of acting, feeling, thinking does have beneficial and 
constructive influence on your self-image. Act them 
out for 21 days. ‘Experience’ them and see if worry, 
guilt, hostility have not been diminished and if con- 
fidence has not been increased 
So, why not give yourself a face lift? Y our do-it- 
yourself kit consists of retaxation of negative tensions 
to prevent scars, therapeutic forgiveness to remove old 
scars, providing yourself with a tough (not a hard) 
epidermis instead of a shell, creative living, a willing— 
ness to be a little vulnerable, and a nostalgia for the 
future instead of the past. 
lf the above puts you off thenthis is not the 
ook for your use. |f this totally western way 
of dealing with yourself interests you, this 
book is far better than most of the other pop- 
enlightenment books around. 
[Suggested and reviewed by James Fadiman] 
blackboard. 
Each time you do, subconscious 
impulses make your hand and arm lighter, and they 
keep moving up. Moving up. Higher and higher.” 
MIND-SET 
A. 
B. 
Cc. 
Figure 2. 
Ambiguous stimulus patterns. 
An example of a structured pattern designed to 
purposely effect perceptual changes is shown above 
in figure 2. 
Your perceptual reaction to 
the patterns shown in 
figure 2 can be predicted. 
If you will first stare for 
thirty seconds or so at pattern ‘A’ and then look at 
pattern ‘B’, you will see pattern ‘A’ as if it were 
against a background of crossed lines. But as you 
continue to look, pattern ‘A’ will become the back- 
ground and the crossed-line pattern will become 
itself no matter how hard you try to keep it from 
doing so. 
If you will then stare at pattern ‘C’ for 
thirty seconds or so you will find, upon looking at 
‘B', that pattern ‘C’ is first perceived as the figure, 
but again, the changes will take place automatically. 
Your automatic mechanism, or what the Freudians 
call the ‘unconscious,’ is absolutely impersonal. 
It 
operates as a machine and has no ‘will’ of its own. 
It always tries to react appropriately to your current 
beliefs and interpretations concerning environment. 
It always seeks to give you appropriate feelings, and 
to accomplish the goals which you consciously de- 
termine upon. 
It works only upon the data which 
you feed it in the form of ideas, beliefs, interpreta- 
tions, opinions. 
Inner disturbance, or the opposite of tranquility, is 
nearly always caused by over-response, a too sensi- 
tive ‘alarm reaction.’ 
You create a built-in 
tranquilizer, or psychic screen between yourself and 
the disturbing stimulus, when you practice “‘not 
responding’’—letting the telephone ring. 
You cure old habits of over-response, you extinguish 
old conditioned reflexes, when you practice delaying 
the habitual, automatic, and unthinking response. 
You may have never been formally hypnotized. But 
if you have accepted an idea—from yourself, your 
teachers, your parents, friends, advertisements—or 
from any other source, and further, if you are firmly 
convinced that idea is true, it has the same power 
over you as the hypnotist’s words have over the 
hypnotized subject. 
