Psychological Reflections 
Jung in capsules and tasting like medicine. 
The selection and editing of paragraphs from Jung’s writings 
by Jacobi is done with an informed sense of continuity, so 
that the book is readable in sequence or by bits. 
(na world increasingly subjective, everybody is psychologists 
to one another. Here is one master book of tools. 
; 
from: 
Harper & Row 
49 East 33'o Street 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Human Use of Human Beings 
A proper sequel to his Cybernetics 
[see p. 62], this book jis social, 
untechnical, ultimate in most of its 
considerations, 
Its domain is the 
whole earth of the mind. 
Norbert Wiener is one of the 
founders of an n-dimensional 
inhabited world whose nature we’ve 
yet to /earn. 
Psychological Reflections 
C.G. Jung [ed. Jacobi] 
1945, 1953, 1961: 340 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
Norbert Wiener 
1950, 1954; 288pp- 
$1.25 postpaid 
from: 
Avon Books 
250 West 55th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
The Human Use of Human Beings 
No one develops his personality because someone told him it would be 
useful or advisable for him to do so. Nature has never yet allowed her-- 
self to be imposed upon by well-meaning advice. Only coercion working 
through casual connections moves nature, and human nature also. 
Nothing changes itself without need, and human personality least of 
all. It is immensely conservative, not to say inert. Only the sharpest 
need is able to rouse it. The development of personality obeys no wish, 
no command, and no insight, but only need; it wants the motivating co- 
ercion of inner or outer necessities, Any other development would be 
GARRY AERA 
Do GATNGWe Herony,  HEAYE! oof 4898 
The man who would learn the human mind will gain almost nothing 
from experimental psychology. Far better for him to put away his aca- 
demic gown, to say good-bye to the study, and to wander with human 
heart through the world. There, in the horrors of the prison, the asylum, 
and the hospital, in the drinking-shops, brothels, and gambling hells, in 
the salons of the elegant, in the exchanges, socialist meetings, churches, 
religious revivals, and sectarian ecstacies, through love and hate, through 
the experience of passion.in every form in his own body, he would reap 
richer store of knowledge than text-books a foot thick could give him. 
Then would he know to doctor the sick with real knowledge of the 
human soul. 
A neurosis has really come to an end when it has overcome the wrongly 
oriented ego. The neurosis itself is not healed; it heals us. The man is ill, 
but the illness is an attempt of nature to heal him. We can therefore 
learn a great deal for the good of our health from the illness itself, and 
that which appears to the neurotic person as absolutely to be rejected 
is just the part which contains the true gold which we should otherwise 
individualism. This is why the accusation of individualism is a cheap 
insult when it is raised against the natural development of personality. 
It is naturally a fundamental error to believe that if we see an anti- 
value in a value, or an untruth in a truth, the value or the truth is 
then invalid. They have only become relative. Everything human 
is relative, because every thing depends upon an inner polarity, for 
everything is a phenomenon of energy. And energy itself necessaril 
depends on a previous polarity without which there can be no patie 
There must always be high and low, hot and cold, etc., so that the 
process of adjustment which is energy, can occur. The tendency to 
deny all previous values in favour of their opposites is therefore just 
as exaggerated as the former one-sidedness. Where generally accep- 
ted and undoubted values are suddenly thrown away, there is a fatal 
loss. Whoever acts in this way ends by throwing himself overboard 
with the discarded values. 
The gigantic catastrophes that threaten us are not elemental happenings 
of a physical or biological kind, but are psychic events. We are threat- 
ened in a fearful way by wars and revolutions that are nothing else than 
psychic epidemics. At any moment a few million people may be seized 
by a madness, and then we have another world war or devastating rev- 
olution, Instead of being exposed to wild beasts, tumbling rocks, and 
inundating waters, man is exposed today to the elemental forces of his 
never have found. 
of body to earth. 
Tantra Art 
The secret of the earth is not a joke and not a paradox. We need only 
see how in America the skull- and hip-measurements of all European 
races become Indianized in the second generation. That is the secret 
~ of the American soil. And every soil has its secret, of which we carry 
“an unconscience image in our souls: a relationship of spirit to body and 
Every phenomenal object is the concentration and reflection of a certain pattern. 
Yantra 
is an apparatus to connect one outside time and space in eternity. 
t Vishvasara Tantra 
own psyche. Psychic life is a world-power-that exceeds by many times 
all the powers of the earth. The Enlightenment, which stripped nature | 
and human institutions of gods, overlooked the one god of fear who 
- 
dwells in the psyche. Fear of God is in place, if anywhere, before the 
domination power of psychic life. 
No doubt it is a great nuisance that mankind is not uniform 
but compounded of individuals whose psychic structure 
spreads them over a span of at least ten thousand years. Hence 
there is absolutely no truth that does not spell salvation to one 
The greater the contrast, the greater is the potential. Great energy only 
Person and damnation to another. All universalisms get stuck in: 
comes from a correspondingly great tension between opposites. 
this terrible dilemma. 
For any one interested in Yantra, Mandalas, Archetypal art, ‘Objective’ 
art this book is invaluable. 
Incredible color and B&W reproductions of 
works not usually available or attainable. 
This book will become a 
standard dictionary for ‘objective’ language study. Recommend con- 
current readings of Tucci’s Theory & Practice of the Mandala. 
Tantra 
Art, as text, while poetic and interesting is not precise or specific enough for 
those desiring all de tales. 
{Reviewed by Steve Durkee. Suggested by Ann Hogle.] 
Tantra Art is said to be going out of print, though a few copies are still 
available from Shambala and WHOLE EARTH. However, Mookerjee is 
supposed to be coming out with a second volume this summer, also 
published by Ravi Kumar in Paris. We'll report on availability in the 
Supplement to the CATALOG. 
Meanwhile, you can still get six of the best images (including above) 
from Tantra Art in poster form—— $2.50 postpaid each——from 
Shambala or WHOLE EARTH. 
Tucci’s Mandala book is not currently in print. 
Tantra Art 
Ajit Mookerjee 
1966; 100 pp. 
“*W/hat is here, is elsewhere. 
What is not here, is nowhere.’ 
from 
? 
$32.50 postpaid 
Shambala Booksellers 
2482 Telegraph 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Regnes 
HUMAN BEINGS 
Cyhemetics are 
Soce 
Sy Nortert Wiener 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
*: 
It is the thesis of this book that society can only be understood 
through a study of the messages and the communication facilities 
which belong to it; and that in the future development of these mes- 
sages and communication facilities, messages between man and ma- 
chine and between machine and machine, are destined to play an 
ever-increasing part. 
Messages are themselves a form of pattern and organization. 
Indeed, 
it is possible to treat sets of messages as having an entropy like sets 
of states of the external world. Just as entropy is a measure of dis- 
" organization, the information carried by a set of messages is a measure 
of organization. 
In fact, it is possible to interpret the information car- 
ried by a message as essentially the negative of its entropy, and the 
negative logarithm of its probability. That is, the more probable the 
message, the less information it gives. Clichés, for example, are less 
illuminating than great poems. 
! believe that Ashby’s brilliant idea of the unpurposeful random 
mechanism which seeks for its own purpose through a process of 
learning is not only one of the great philosophical contributions of 
the present day, but will lead to highly useful technical developments 
in the task of automatization. Not only can we build purpose into 
machines, but in an overwhelming majority of cases a machine de- 
signed to avoid certain pitfalls of breakdown will look for purposes 
which it can fulfil!. 
We are not stuff that abides, but patterns that perpetuate them- 
selves. A pattern is a message, and may be transmitted as a message. 
It is the great public which is demanding the utmost of secrecy for 
modern science in all things which may touch its military uses. 
This demand for secrecy.is scarcely more than the wish of a sick 
civilization not to learn the progress of its own disease. 
' 
It is illuminating to know that the sort of phenomenon which is 
recorded subjectively as emotion may not be merely a useless epi- 
phenomenon of nervous action, but may control some essential 
stage in learning, and in other similar processes. 
There exists no form of concentration more absolute than the creation of images. 
‘In this way is a path toward truth and realization of the self. 
TANTRA ART 
