The Office: a facility based on change 
Nobody involved in this book is an architect, 
which is pretty interesting, because most of 
its implications are architectural. 
The design 
principles here apply splendidly to any work 
or living area which traffics in information or 
human interaction, from offices to small 
communities. 
It’s a fine presentation of new 
theory, and Herman Miller, Inc. now has a 
line of office hardware behind it. We bought 
the book and hammered our own furniture 
out of scrap doors and 2x4’s. 
{Suggested by Dave Evans] 
The management of symbolic ROprese tate ay of 
reality is the function of offices. 
The office in its short evolution has adopted every 
kind of communication abstraction. 
Resultantly, 
we are concerned with reality simulation. 
Wiring is part of the office environment and since it. 
is so abundant and must frequently be changed, it 
has to be a successful, visible design detail. 
The Office: a facility based on change 
Robert Propst 
1968; 71 pp. 
} 
$8.00 postpaid from 
| 
Taplinger Publishing Co., Inc 
4 
Face to face across a surface maintains formality 
29 East 10 Street 
and a tone of discretion. Ninety degree location, 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
the most natural of all conversational positions, 
or 
encourages exchange. Side by side positioning allows 
~ 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
joint viewing of papers or objects intelligibly. 
The most serious health problem in offices is its 
sedentary nature. Compelled by lack of choice, we 
are forced to conduct most office activity in a sitting 
position. The result, as medical studies and insurance 
data make clear, is a steady decline in vitality, energy 
and general body tone. 
Of even greater significance is the importance of 
sight as a window to mental recall. An office with 
The concept of limitation is perhaps the most 
important new expression. Action Office || provides 
no place for paper to hide and die. Essentially, it 
places all papers in capacity limited display. You 
can see it, it is all signalled or marked and it will 
feed back a strong purge signal when it becomes 
no relevant visual display deprives the human 
performer of a spectacular recall tool: 
the human 
eye as a receptor for the mind. 
Overabundant. 
Three sides with a slightly widened opening ap- 
pears to be the best enclosure of all as a generality. 
Ee 
tae 
There is good definition of territory or domae . 
. 
. 
Existing officer patterns often disastrously train us 
| 
privacy is well expressed and the ability to survey 
to indulge in unlimited intention involvement with- 
or participate is well maintained. 
Out requiring subsequent results. Too many people 
are allowed to assume a performance fantasy, never 
following up on many actions they endorse or 
4 
initiate. They are surrounded by papers they never 
: 
; 
“ 
read, people they never really influence and they 
: 
Bee 
frequently live in a blizzard of involvement well 
beyond their ability to relate to and implement. 
With certainty, how well we live and function in our 
offices determines the economic health of people 
and organizations. The degree to which we have 
survived in unfavorable circumstances is a tribute to 
human adaptability. However, the fact that we can 
adapt does not mean that we do not also pay the 
penalties for forced fits. 
© 
= 
5 
a 
_— 
Dose 
Synectics 
The three communication networks inherent in 
every organization are: 
a.- General information network. 
b. Instructional network. 
c. Opinion network. 
Now we draw from the data collected an optimum 
graphic representation of the total organization, its 
facilities and how individuals function and relate. 
This graphic representation is rather directly trans- 
latable to real life physical facilities. 
the Bevelppment of Dreative Capacity 
| 
Wiliam Jd. Gordan 
~ The word Synectics, from the Greek, means the 
joining together of different and apparently irrele- 
vant elements. Synectics theory applies to the 
integration of diverse individuals into a problem- 
stating, problem-solving group. 
It is an operational 
theory for the conscious use of the preconscious 
psychological mechanisms present in man’s 
creative activity. 
The mechanism of Personal Analogy is easily 
understood after exposure to Synectics 
: 
technique. However, its application demands 
extensive loss of self. Some individuals 
habitually are so wed to rigid inner control and 
rational behaviour that any alternative behaviour is 
anxiety inducing. To evoke this mechanism the 
‘teacher’ sets the example of Personal Analogy (e.g., 
in the above example, he is the first to enter the 
An outline of a method for training creative 
groups and maintaining their creativity in the 
business environment. 
This book provides 
both the theoretical and experimental back- 
ground and the practical details of how to 
put the method to work, Although written 
for use by business executives, the applica- 
tions to other situations are obvious and 
important. Anyone attempting to create a 
commune or other group of people who will 
work together creatively will find many useful 
ideas here. 
The problem of interface between 
the creative group and the workaday world 
is also treated in some detail. Extensive 
examples of the method in operation, and a 
lengthy bibliography on creativity. 
{Reviewed by Larry McCombs. 
Synectics 
Suggested by Jane Burton.] 
William J. J. Gordon 
1961; 180 pp. 
Ory 
: 
Collier Books 
$1.25 postpaid 
866 Third Avenue 
New York, N, Y. 10022 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG: 
In Synectics theory, play with apparent irrelevancies 
transfer box) so that the novice loses his fear of loss > 
of control. The novice needs to see what happens 
is used extensively to generate energy for problem- 
solving and to evoke new viewpoints with respect to 
problems. Play generates energy because it isa 
pleasure in itself, an intrinsic end. 
What do | want? 
| want a spring...well, | want it to run the 
dial, the outside dial, and of course the real problem is how to 
get a band out of this motion. Let me look at the motion 
again. How do you get inside that spring? 
If I...if there were 
an enormous spring...a spring as big as a house, and | hold 
onto it and it goes in and out, in and out. 
What happens to me? Well, let’s see, I can put a little drop 
of ink on the thing. Now I wind it in and out. Look. If I 
get a spring big enough, as the spring tightens . 
. 
. the blob 
of ink will move in... and out as the spring relaxes... 
. 
“Funny ... now I have the feeling that this thing is on its 
own, completely outside me... that the whole idea is no 
longer . 
. 
. no longer anything to do with being mine, my idea 
+. it’s just like flying now because if I put a spot on the 
spring and tighten it up, it performs an arc which is exactly 
the band I’m looking for [cf. Fig 4 (a), (b), (O]. It’s amazing, 
and this is no longer I . 
. 
. it’s as though it was taken away 
from me. ... This must be what people mean when they say 
you start writing a play and the people you've put in the play 
just go on by themselves.” 
(0) 
(c) 
to someone else first. Then hesitatingly and finally 
with relaxed confidence the novice will begin to use 
the mechanism himself. 
A: Couldn't there be a miei which was trained so” 
that it wouldn’t dribble? 
. 
E: Maybe, but it would be contrived as hell...and 
if the human mouth can’t keep itself clean with all 
the feedback in the human system.... 
D: When! wasakid! grew-up on a farm. | used to 
drive a hayrack behind a pair of draft horses. When 
a horse would take a crap, first his outer.,.! guess 
you'd call ita kind of mouth, would open. Then 
— 
the anal sphincter would dilate and a horse ball 
would come out. Afterwards, everything would 
close up again. The whole picture would be as clean 
as a whistle. 
E: What if the horse had diarrhea? 
D: That happened when they got too much grain... 
but the horse would kind of wink a couple of times 
while the anal mouth was drawn back...the winking 
would squeeze out the liquid...then the outer mouth 
would cover the whole thing up again. 
ut 
B: You're describing a plastic mo? on. 
D: | guess so...could we simulate * y horse’s ass in — 
plastic? 
. 
