A Yaqui Way of Knowledge 
This book records the experiences of an anthropology student 
He looked at me for a long time and laughed. He said that learning 
Once a man has vanquished fear, he is free from it for the rest of his 
: 
pen 
palit 
Nay 
’ through conversation was not only 
a waste, but stupidity, because 
life because instead of fear, he has acquired clarity of mind 
who becomes the PRICE? or don nan; a Yaqui indian 
“man 
easing was the most difficult ‘ak aman could pera He 
which erases fear. By then a man knows his desires; he knows how to 
of knowledge” who is also a 
“‘diablero”, a black sorcerer. 
It 
asked me to remember the time | had tried to find my spot, and 
satisfy those desires. He can anticipate the new steps of learning, and — 
is a profoundly disturbing book since it opens up areas and 
how | wanted to find it without Being any work because | had ex- 
a sharp Beary surrounds everything. The man 
n 
feels that nothing is 
i, 
ism. 
/, 
7 Juan, over a 
period of 
pected him to hand out all the information. 
If he had done so, he 
conceale 
at Re isa if et oe Rehnawe hs ce 
said, | would never have learned. But, knowing how difficult it was | And thus he has encountered his second enemy: Clarity! That clarity — 
Ag Re TELE 
UE 
5 
: 
isaoues 
to find my spot and, above all, knowing that it existed, would give 
of mind, which is so hard to obtain, dispels fear, but also blinds. 
teaches through giving his apprentice various psycho-active 
me a unique sense of confidence. He said that while | remained 
plants: peyote, datura, and a mixture of psilocybin mushrooms, 
rooted to my ‘’good spot’ nothing could cause me bodily harm, 
“| say it is useless to waste your life on one path, especially if that 
genista canariensis, and other plants. Each of these plants has 
because | had the assurance that at that particular spot | was at my 
path has no heart.”’ 
its own way of teaching, its own demands and its own kind of 
mad Hoe | had ne Sadie! ees oF ey ne abies Sed 5 
< cin how do you know when a path has no heart, Don Juan?” 
armful 
to me. 
If, 
however, 
a 
where it was, 
u 
eni 
. 
power. 
For those of us who thought te HOUCTSOOC 
Syne: 
never have had the confidence needed to claim it as true knowledge. 
here ae diate al yan mea peel peak a8 — 
; 
delic effects this book reveals the rudimentary state of our 
Thus, knowledge was indeed power. 
Bradierpath 
4 
knowledge. For those of us who have dismissed magic as a 
“But how willl know for sure whether a Path has a heart or not?” 
x 
combination of hypnotism and stage effects we are confronted 
with powerful and effective magic which seems irrefutable. 
“Anybody would know that. The trouble is nobody asks th= : question; — 
and when aman finally realizes that he has taken a path without a hea 
; 
the path is ready to kill him. At that point very few men can stopto 
Don Juan himself appears as a powerful, indecipherable, wise 
deliberate, and leave the path.” 
: 
; 
ioe 
oe 
“How should | proceed to ask the 
question 
erly, 
Juan?" 
man whose knowledge is both extensive and alien to our own). 
Loe es 
ee 
Pp 
q 
properly, don 
Juan 
He offers to each of us the possibility of dealing with other 
The teachings of Don aes 
“'| mean, is there a proper method, so | would not lie to myself and 
realities, but he makes it clear that all these ways are danger- 
oe ce senade 
believe the answer is yes when it really is no?’’ 
“Why would you lie?’’ 
; 
“Perhaps because at the moment the path is pleasant and enjoyable.”” 
“That is nonsense. A path without a heart is never enjoyable. 
You 
— 
have to work hard even to take it. On the other hand, a path with 
heart is easy; it does not make you work at liking it.” 
ous, difficult and once entered, cannot be put aside as simply 
another experience. 
The goal of his teaching is partially expressed as follows: 
You have the vanity to believe you live in two worlds, but that is only 
your vanity. There is but one single world for us. We are men, and 
must follow the world of men contentedly. 
The particular thing to learn is how to get to the crack between the 
worlds and how to enter the other world. There is a crack between 
the two worlds, the world of the diableros and the world of living 
men. There is a place where these two worlds overlap. The crack 
is there. 
It opens and closes like a door. in the wind. To get there 
aman must excercise his will. He must, | should say, develop an 
indomitable desire for it, a single-minded dedication. 
But he must 
do it without the help of any power or any man...” 
“But is this Business of the dog and me pissing on each other true?” — 
“lt was not a dog! How many times do | have to tell you that? This 
is the only way to understand it. It’s the onlv wav! 4t was ‘he’ who 
played with you.” 
; 
: 
“Let's put it another way, Don Juan. What! meant to say is that if 
| had tied rnyself to a rock with a heavy chain! would have flown 
just the same, because my body had nothing to do with my flying.” 
Don looked at me incredulously. ‘If you tie yourself to a rock,” 
— 
_ he said, ‘I’m afraid you will have to fly holding the rock stp 
its: 
heavy chain.” 
: 
Not a book to be read for pleasure, a book which will effect 
you more than you may wish to be effected. 
[Reviewed by James Fadiman] 
(Why not read it for pleasure? It’s frontier Boswell aid 
Johnson. —SB) 
. The Teachings of Don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge 
“Don’t get me wrong, Don Juan,” | protested, ‘’! want to have an ally, 
rae one 
hoeee Boeke 
but | also want to know everything | can. You yourself have said 
; 
PP. 
: 
Simon and Scheer ae 
that knowledge is power.” 
$0.95 postpaid (a buy) 
pea 
2 
“Nol” he said emphatically. ‘Power rests on the kind of knowledge 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Reva ae adaae 
one holds. What is the sense of knowing things that are useless?” 
Fundamentals of Yoga EERE ERERL EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE 
EE OER EEE EE 
ET REE 
ASE ERIE 
KT EIR AAR HE TEE EER EE TTR EI 
EE ED EE TRE EER HER HO 
EE EE EK HF 44 
“Now you are in your native land. Now you do not know where: your e 
Mishra has practised as general physician, surgeon and endo- 
* 
body is. The entire universe is in you and-you are in the entire uni- 
| 
a 
crinologist in India and the West and has a thorough know-- 
ledge of Western medicine as well as yoga. 
This makes his 
book invaluable to the student desiring a detailed scientific 
understanding of yogic theory and methods. 
The book con- 
tains several interesting diagrams of physical systems and 
psycho-physical planes of consciousness. 
verse. Innumerable suns, stars, and planets are moving in you, ey) 
: 
it, enjoy your real life.” Complete silence. 
4 
ace: an, easy posture. 
. Relax your entire body. 
. Feel your heart pumping in the chest. 
. Hold your breath. 
. Jn a moment you will feel that heart rate and vigor of beat are 
increased. 
1. 
A 
3 
Being a practising teacher of yoga, Mishra writes in a forth- 
6. With every heartbeat, the heart is sending energy to every part eh 
7 
8 
9 
0. 
right direct style and gives, in each chapter, excercises ar- 
ranged in numbered steps, to practice the methods des-- 
cribed. 
The physical, or hatha yoga methods are described 
in some detail, though still only as preparatory to the other 
meditative types of exercises. Methods not usually des- 
cribed in other works on yoga—such as tratakam (concen- 
trated gazing) and nadam (tuning in to inner sound-vibration) 
are also taught and given extensive treatment. 
There are 
chapters on “Techniques to Magnetize the Body”, “Group 
Relaxation and Group Magnetism”, “Postoperative and Post- 
meditative Suggestion”, “Anesthesia Produced by Yoganidra’’, 
“Heal Yourself by Your Own Hormones and Tranquillizers”. 
et al, 
the body. Feel it. 
i 
. With increased heart rate and beat, energy is changed into electro- 
magnetic pulsation and the entire body is filled with it. Feel it. — 
. The entire is now magnetized, and the spiritual heart and serial 
consciousness are fully manifested in you. Feel them. 
: 
. The whole body becomes the heart of the universe, and you feel 
that the entire body is pulsating as a single heart. 
2 
Gradually you forget the feelings of the physical body and you 
identify yourself completely with supreme consciousness, 
; 
11. Now you know that your consciousness is never a product of the 
body, but is manifested in the body. 
7 
12. Feel that your body is one point of manifestation of bees. Pi 
but really you are everywhere. .... Rahat 
1 
One might find fault with the book’s somewhat excessive 
load of Hindu terminology, much of which is redundant, and 
of more interest to students of {Indian culture than to prac-- 
ticioners. 
There are innumerable varieties of nadam, but they will be ee 
‘ 
for beginners. The following ten are the most useful and frequent: 
Ee 
1. Cin nadam: Like the hum of the honey- intoxicated bees; idling 
engine vibration; rainfall; whistling sounds; high frequency sound, 
2. Cin-in nédam: Waterfall, roaring of an ocean. 
: 
3. Ghanta nadam: Sound of a bell ringing. 
iia 
eae 
4. Sankha nadam: Sound of a conch shell. 
5 
ie 
5. Tantri vina: Nasal sound, humming sound like that of awire — 
string instrument 
6. Tala nadam: Sound of a small tight drum. 
7..V&nu nadam: Sound of a flute. 
8. Mridarnga: Sound of a big bass drum. 
9. Bheri rnadam: Echoing sound. 
10. Megha nadam: Roll of distant thunder. 
This is probably the best book for those professionals and 
laymen who want to apply yogic techniques in physical and 
psycho-therapy both for themselves and others. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Ralph Metzner] 
Fundamentals of Yoga 
Rammurti Mishra 
1959; 255 pp. 
$1.25 from 
Lancer Books 
1560 Broadway 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
