The Mind of the Dolphin 
| 
Lilly knows that it is to everybody’s advantage for one kind 
\of computer to link up with another, and that’s his program 
with dolphins. 
This book reports his speculations and 
‘experiments with dolphins in recent years. Included is a 
\thorough account by a girl, Margaret Howe, who lived alone 
| with Peter Dolphin for 10 weeks. As usual with research on 
_|communication, everything discovered has broad implications. 
IN: 
ANonhuman intelligence 
John Cunningham Lilly, M. BL 
THE DOLPH 
Sometimes | feel that if man could become more involved in some 
il| problems of an alien species, he may become less involved with his awn 
| egocentric pursuits, and deadly competition within his species, and 
i become somehow a better being. 
it 
We are often asked, ‘If the dolphins are so intelligent why aren't they 
ruling the world?” 
My very considered answer to this is—they may be 
too wise to try to rule the world. The Question can be easily turned 
around, Why does man or individual men want to rule the world? | 
feel that it is a very insecure position to want to rule all of the other 
species and the vast resources of our planet. This means a deep 
insecurity with the “‘universes’’ inside of one’s self. One's fears ana 
one's angers are being projected on others outside of one’s self; to rule 
q 
the world is, finally, to rule one’s inner realities. 
: 
=|. 
The Mind of the Dolphin 
John Cunningham Lilly, M.D. 
Thus a given dolphin can carry on a whistle conversation with his 
right side and a clicking conversation with his left side and do the 
two quite independently with the two halves of his brain. 
1967; 286 pp. 
$.95 
postpaid 
from 
Avon Books 
. 
| Conservatively, we estimate that the dolphin can put out ten times 
250 West 55 Street 
} the sonic physical information per second that a man produces. 
The information does not exist as information until it is within the 
higher levels of abstraction of each of the minds and computed as 
| 
such. Up to the point at which it becomes perceived as information. 
it is signals. These signals travel through the external reality between 
the two bodies, and travel as signals within the brain substances 
themselves. Till the complex patterns of traveling neuronal impulses 
in the brain are computed as information within the cerebral cortex, 
they are not yet information. Information is the result of a long 
series of computations based on data signal inputs, data signal 
transmissions to the brain substance, and recomputations of these 
data. 
VAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVA 
AVAVAVAVA 
A 
AVAVAVAVA 
A 
VAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAVAV AWA NN VAVAY ARAMA, 
A 
A 
VAAARARARARAARRARARARARARAL 
VAVAVAVAVA AN ARARARIAANRIANASNA 
v, 
VAVAVAY, 
AVA 
\ 
In the analysis of the effects of LSD-25 on the human mind, 
reasonable hypothesis states tiat the effect of these substances on the 
human computer is to introduce “‘white noise”’ (in the sense of 
randomly varying energy containing no signals of itself) in specific 
systems in the computer......... 
The increase in ‘white noise’’ energy allows quick and random access 
to memory and lowers the threshold to unconscious memories 
(“expansion of consciousness”). 
In such noise one can project almost 
anything at almost any cognitive level in almost any allowable mode... 
1] 
LEVELS 
XI 
UNKNOWN 
! 
X 
SUPRA-SPECIES-METAPROGRAMS 
IX 
SUPRA-SELF-META PROGRAMS 
ov 
° 
awareness 
Vil 
METAPROGRAMS 
METAPROGRAM STORAGE 
vi 
PROGRAMS 
PROGRAM STORAGE 
| 
i 
SUBROUTINES 
SUBROUTINE STORAGE 
IV 
BIOCHEMICAL ACTIVITY 
NEURAL ACTIVITY 
GLIAL ACTIVITY 
VASCULAR ACTIVITY 
Wt 
BIOCHEMICAL BRAIN 
NEURAL BRAIN 
GLIAL BRAIN 
VASCULAR BRAIN 
it 
BIOCHEMICAL BODY ——=SENSORY BODY=—MOTOR BODY 
VASCULAR BODY 
1 
BIOCHEMICAL 
CHEMICAL 
PHYSICAL********2e""**"EXTERNAL REALITY 
Figure 1. Schema of the Levels of the Functional Organization of the Human Biocomputer 
Each part of each level has feedback-control relations with each other part, 
indicated by the connecting lines. 
Each level has fee iback-contro! with 
each other level. 
For the sake of schematic simplicity, many of these feed- 
back Connections are not shown. 
One example is an important connection 
between Levels VI through IX and K; some built-in, survival programs have a 
representation 
at the Metaprogram Level which places @ representative at 
the Supra Self-metaprogram Level as follows: “These programs are necessary 
for survival; do not attenuate or excite them to extreme values, such ex- 
tremes lead to non-computed actions, penalties, iliness, of death.”* 
After 
Construction, such a Metaprogram is transferred by the Self-metaprogram to 
the 
Supraself-metaprograms 
and to 
the 
Supra-species-metaprograms 
for 
future control purposes. 
The boundaries between the body and the external 
reality 
are between 
iNote, See text and glossary for definitions of terms used.) 
John C. Lilly, M.D., Human Biocomputer: Programming and Metaprogramming. Miami: Communication Rese 
PEAR A 
(John C. Lilly..1967 ) 
REVISIONS as of Februar, 
es 
Levels | and II. certain energies and materials pass this boundary in special 
places (heat, 
light, sound, food. secretions 
feces) 
body and brain are between Levels 
!| and III. special structures pass this 
boundary 
(blood vessels, 
nerve 
fibers, 
cerebro-spinal 
fluid) 
through Xl are in the brain circuitry and are the software of the Biocomputer. 
Levels above 
Level X are 
labled “Unknown” 
(1) to maintain the openness of the system, (2) to motivate future scientific 
research, (3) to emphasize the necessity for unknown factors at all levels, 
(4) to point out the heuristic nature of this schema, 
(5) to emphasize unwill- 
ingness to subscribe 
to any dogmatic belief without testable reproducible 
data, and (6) to encourage creative Courageous imaginative investigation of 
unknown influences on and in human realities, inner and outer. 
By long and hard work | found that the evil label “negative” should 
not be tied to any mode or any kind of thinking at all. 
| found that bodily sources of discomfort, pain, or threat tend to 
program the mind in the negative mode and keep it there as long as 
the discomfort continues. As long as pain, even at a very low level, 
continues, the computer (which is one’s mind) tends to program a 
negative pall. 
Once one has been through deep experiences in tune with the vast 
forces of the universe, the vast forces within ourselves, we see that 
the need for conflict, the need for hostility, and the need for hatred 
become less intense. One finds the universe inside and the one 
outside so vast and so lonely that any other living thing that loves 
or shows any signs of loving is precious and close. 
The human participant's assumptions, i.e., those of Margatet C. Howe, 
in her own words are as follows: 
1. Dolphins are capable of communication with man on the level of 
high intelligence. 
2. Dolphins are not only capable of this communication but are 
eager for it and are willing to cooperate with man to achieve it. 
3. Possibly the best way to go about establishing this communication 
is to set up a situation where the man (woman) and a dolphin live 
together as closely as possible for an extended period of time. 
4. This is a long process and involves many steps, each of which. 
must be recognized and encouraged. The attempt to communicate 
with a dolphin in English involves two main parts: (1) the dolphin 
must learn how to physically say the words, and (2) he must learn 
the meaning of what he is saying. These two parts may be worked out 
| 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
out individually or simultaneously. 
y 
; 
or 
5. One first step is the creation and the maintenance of the mutual 
, 
} 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
trust and reciprocal rewards one for the other. 
AMANAAAARARRARAAAAD AAR AA 
The noise introduced brings a certain amount of disorder with it, 
even as white noise in the physical world brings randomness. 
However, the LSD-25 noise randomizes signals only in a limited way: 
not enough to destroy all order, only enough to superimpose a small 
creative ‘jiggling’ on program materials and metaprograms and their 
signals. 
In the complete physical absence of other external computers within 
the critical interlock distance, the self-directed and other-directed 
programs can be clearly detected, analysed, recomputed, 
re-programmed, and new metaprograms initiated by the solitudinous 
computer itself. In the as-completely-as-possible-attenuated-physical- 
reality environment in solitude, a maximum intensity, 
a maximum 
complexity and a maximutn speed of re-programming is achievable 
by the self. 
(above and in Biocomputer) 
(beyond metaprogramming) 
(to be metaprog:rammed) 
(to metaprogram) 
{to program sets of pragrams) 
PROGRAMMING AND METAPEOGRAMMING 
IN THE HUMAN BIOCOMPUTEE 
THEORY ANO ExPERWAENTS, 
(detailed instructions) 
(details of instructions) 
(signs of activity) 
(brain) 
(body) 
(external reality) 
COMMUNICATION RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
Boundaries between 
Human Biocomputer 
John C, Lilly, M.D. 
1967; 160 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
Levels 
IV 
for the following purposes 
from 
Esalen Institute 
Big Sur, CA 93920 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
arch Institute, 1967; Scientific Report No, CRI 0167 
