The Population Bomb 
There’s a shit storm coming. Not a nice clean earthquake or 
satisfying revolution but pain in new dimensions: world pain, 
sub-continents that starve and sub-continents that eat unable 
to avoid each other. The consequences will dominate our 
lives. In the heart of the problem are the solutions, and the 
sooner we're clear about what’s happening the sooner the 
solutions can work their way out. 
This book is the best first 
hard look that’s around. The author is a well-regarded young 
population biologist and ecologist who freaked out of his lab 
and into the media with the bad news. Besides freaking well 
he reports well. 
It is, of course, socially very acceptable to reduce 
the death rate. Billions of years of evolution have 
given us all a powerful will to live. Intervening in 
the birth rate goes against our evolutionary values. 
During all those centuries of our evolutionary past, 
the individuals who had the most children passed on 
their genetic endowment in greater quantities than 
those who reproduced less, Their genes dominate 
our heredity today. 
The reproductive function of sex must be shown as 
just one of its functions, and one that must be cate- 
fully regulated in relation to the needs of the 
individual and society. Much emphasis must be 
placed on sex as an interpersonal relationship, as an 
important and extremely pleasurable aspect of 
being human, as mankind’s major and most enduring 
recreation, as a fountainhead of his humor, as a 
phenomenon that affects every aspect of his being 
_ Famine 1975! 
Population Bomb has the 
world ecologist’s view- 
point. Famine 1975! is 
the international-aid 
viewpoint, by brothers 
who've been there, 
Famine 1975! ° 
William & Paul Paddock 
1967; 276 pp. 
$2.35 postpaid 
from 
Little, Brown & Company, Inc. 
200 West Street 
Waltham, Mass. 02154 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
As White says, ‘By destroying pagan animism, 
Christianity made it possible to exploit nature in a 
mood of indifference to the feelings of natural 
objects.’ Christianity fostered the wide spread of 
basic ideas of ‘progress’ and of time as something 
linear, nonrepeating, and absolute, flowing from 
the future into the past. 
The Times Atlas of the World 
Times Atlas of the World 
‘Comprehensive 1 Vol. Edition 
1968; 568 pp. 
$57.50 postpsid trom 
Today, nearly half of the people in the undeveloped 
world are under the age of fifteen years. 
The battle to feed all of humanity is over. In the 
1970's the world will undergo famines—hundreds 
of millions of people are going to starve to death in 
spite of any crash programs embarked upon now, 
At this late date nothing can prevent a substantial 
increase in the world death rate, although many 
lives could be saved through dramatic programs to 
‘stretch’ the carrying capacity of the earth by in- 
creasing food production. 
But these programs will 
only provide a stay of execution unless they are 
accompznied by determined and successful efforts 
at population control. Population control is the 
conscious regulation of the numbers of human 
beings to meet the needs, not just of individual 
families, but of society as a whole. 
Nothing could be more misleading to our children 
than our present affluent society. They will inherit 
a totally different world, a world in which the 
standards, politics, and economics of the 1960's are 
dead. As the most powerful nation in the world 
today, and its largest consumer, the United States 
cannot stand isolated. We are today involved in the 
events leading to famine; tomorrow we may be 
destroyed by its consequences. 
Remember also that in virtually all underdeveloped 
countries, people have gotten the word about the ~—_safe to assume that our use of synthetic pesticides, 
better life it is possible to have. 
They have seen 
colored pictures in magazines of the miracles of 
Western technology. They have seen automobiles 
and airplanes. They have seen American and Euro- 
pean movies. Many have seen refrigerators, tractors, 
and even TV sets. Almost all have heard transistor 
radios. They know that a better life is possible. 
They hae what we like to call ‘rising expectations.’ 
If twice as many people are to be happy, the miracle 
of doubling what they now have will not be enough. 
It will only maintain today’s standard of living. 
There will have to be a tripling or better. Needless 
to say, they are not going to be happy. 
The old idea that industry could create the mess and 
then the taxpayers must clean it up has to go. The 
garbage produced by an industry is the responsibility 
of that industry. 
More than any other single factor, the opportunity 
to have an abortion performed under safe and easily 
available conditions and, above all, legally, is the 
cause of Japan’s success in population control. Such 
a method is completely taboo in much of the hungry 
world. 
, 
Haiti 
Can‘t-be-saved 
Egypt 
Can’'t-be-saved 
ee 
The Gambia 
Walking Wounded 
Tunisia 
Should Receive Food 
Libya 
Walking Wounded 
India 
Can’t-be-saved 
Pakistan 
Should Receive Food 
Today twelve thousand people died of hunger in the 
world. Tomorrow another twelve thousand will die. 
‘A world remade must be a world remapped.’ That intelligent 
dictum was issued at the end of World War | by Lord 
Northcliffe, then proprietor of The Times of London. He 
ee 
didn’t wait for someone else to do the job; The Times Survey 
_ 
Atlas of the World, with cartography by John Bartholomew 
of Edinburgh, was issued in 1921, and was recognized im- 
mediately as one of the finest atlases every printed. 
The 
tradition has been continued, and the latest Times Atlas— 
the Comprehensive Edition—is the best place for an English- 
reading person to find where in the world something is 
located. 
The book also has a unique ability to convey the 
feel of the world. It measures 18” x 124” x 2”, weighs 11 
pounds, and contains 568 pages, of which 240 are double- 
page maps of superb accuracy and beauty. The index- 
gazetteer includes more than 200,000 entries, incomparably 
more than any other atlas of the world, and the entries are 
keyed not only by individual map coordinates, but by 
latitude and longitude as well (a feature offered by no other 
atlas).. Despite the huge number of place names the maps 
are extraordinarily legible, and they are mercifully free of 
the pink-purple-yellow p«litical emphasis offered by lesser 
cartographers. Some of the place names may look strange 
to American readers, because the atlas follows the rules of 
the Permanent Committee of Geographical Names. 
This 
supra-political body sensibly believes that places should be 
called what their occupants call them. In cases where the 
generic name is unfamiliar, the traditional anglicized name 
is also given, in parentheses. 
The Comprehensive Edition of The Times Atlas of the World 
is published in the United States by Houghton Mifflin 
_ 
Houghton Mifflin Company 
Wayside Road 
Burlington, Mass. 01803 
or »* 
WFIOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Company, Boston, Massachusetts. 
It is dedicated, by 
gracious permission, to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth |1, and 
bound in appropriately regal bright red linen, gold-stamped. 
It costs $45, and it will make anything else on your coffee 
table seem puny, as the whole world should. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Dr. Morton Grosser.] 
category many species of mites, little insectlike 
_ 
were killed by the DDT, and the mites were resis- 
| 
more profits for the agricultural chemical industry 
GE) pers tiatetinsnanicas that, 
THE 
POPULATION 
A ship has hit the rocks and is sinking. The 
Passengers scream for help. Some jump overboard 
and are devoured by the circling sharks. A group of 
distinguished scientists is on board. One of their 
number suggests that they can help man the pumps. 
‘Oh, no!’ shout the others. ‘That might hurt the 
captain's feelings. Besides, pumping is not our 
business. 
It’s outside our field of competence.’ You 
can guess what they do. They appoint a committee 
to study the problem, with subcommittees on marine 
engineering and navigation. They announce to the 
Passengers that in two or three years the committee 
will produce a wonderful report which will be 
acceptable to the passengers, the captain, and the 
steamship line. Not so passive are the pOliticians. 
Some jump up to say that the passengers don’t 
understand the political realities of the situation. 
Other more progressive politicians grab thimbles and 
start bailing, stopping every few seconds to accept 
praise for their valiant efforts. 
@ 
DR. PAL B. RRRICH 
Paes 
The Population Bomb 
| predict that the rate of soil deterioration will 
accelerate as the food crisis intensifies. Ecology will 
be ignored more and more as things get tough. 
It is 
Dr. Paul R. Erlich 
1968; 223 pp. 
$0.95 postpaid 
already massive, will increase. 
Careless overuse of DDT has promoted to ‘pest’ 
relatives of spiders. The insects which ate the mites 
tant to DDT. There you have it—instant pests, and 
in fighting these Frankensteins of their own creation. 
What’s more, some of the more potent miticides the 
chemists have developed with which to do battle 
seem to be powerful carcinogens—cancer-producing 
substances. 
from 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
c/o Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
As Webb said, the frontier was, in essence, ‘a vast 
body of wealth without proprietors.’ Europeans 
moved rapidly to exploit the spatial, mineral, and 
other material wealth of the New World. They 
created an unprecedented economic boom that 
lasted some 400 years. The boom is clearly over, 
however, at least as far as land is concerned. The 
man/land ratio went beyond 27 people per square 
mile again before 1930. Since all of the material 
things on which the boom depended also come 
ultimately from the land, the entire boom is also 
clearly limited. Of course, how to end that boom 
gracefully, without the most fantastic ‘bust’ of all 
time, is what this book is all about. 
Los Angeles, for 
instance, has had 
stringent smog 
control laws for 
about 20 years. 
Breathed any of 
their air lately? 
Distribution and 
