4 
nt 
Sauna 
. 
_ The only book available on Saunas: what they are, the 
history, how to use and enjoy, and how to build one. 
Although the construction details are not extensive, there 
is a list of about 20 Sauna manufacturers who will send you 
free construction plans, in hopes that you'll buy a heating 
device from them. 
[ Suggested by Stan Gould.) 
The whole purpose of the sauna is to induce perspiration. 
ry 
Massage 
People rubbing people is always nice. People rubbing people 
_ 
with skill is an order of magnitude nicer. The problem is 
acquiring skill; there don’t seem to be books that really 
enter the subject in a friendly way.-/lda Rolf, | gather, teaches 
good technique, but you can’t get her through the mail. So, 
until something better is inspired, this is the best massage 
book we've seen. It’s medical, thorough, somewhat 
textbooky, but the illustrations are many and informative 
_ and what they teach feels very good indeed. 
Certain persons seem to possess a natural ability to 
relax their hands and to move them rhythmically, 
and they will learn the technique of massage more 
readily than others. However, anyone who con- 
scientiously spends sufficient time in practice will 
learn contact and rhythm and acquire good technique. 
The simplist form of the family sauna is a one-room hut built of logs, 
with a large rudimentary stove upon which rocks are placed.... The 
heat of the sauna is non-radiant: 
that is, it does not radiate directly 
toward the bather but rather is absorbed in the stones which emit 
the heat into the air. The indirect heat is gentle and constant... The 
stones are heated until they become red hot...ideal temperature 190- 
200 degrees...water is thrown on the stones but the air remains dry 
because moisture is instantly absorbed by the wooden walls... 
traditional sauna includes beating with leafy birch branches, washing, 
and a plunge in a nearby lake or roll in the snow outside. Then 
follows a necessary rest while the body cools down completely. 
The need for a perspiration bath has arisen in those countries where 
people have had to do exceptionally heavy physical work.... After 
heavy work the Jimbs had to be made supple and strengthened before 
work could be continued. 
There are several different kinds of platform. 
In some, a series of 
steps of which the top one is wider than the rest, where there is room 
to both sit and lie. |n others, a wooden stairway leads up to the plat- 
form which is like a gallery on which stools and benches are placed. 
\f possible the sauna should face west, as people usually go into the 
sauna in the evening, very often at sunset. Then the rays of the setting 
sun streaming into the sauna room give one a feeling of intense calm. 
And, lying on the platform, looking out to the lake, one experiences 
a delicious foretaste of what the cool waters will offer the bather who 
plunges from the heat of the sauna into their depths. 
Sauna: The Finnish Bath 
1965; 87 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid from 
Stephen Greene Press 
120 Main Street 
Brattleboro, Vt. 05301 
or 
| 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Interior walls and ceiling are often built of kiln-dried, 
unfinished redwood, which does not shrink, does not 
warp, and is a poor heat conductor. Another excel- 
lent wood is cedar, which not only shares redwood’s 
good properties but also emits a pleasant odor and 
does not stain with moisture. 
Nailing should be done with hot-dipped galvanized 
nails to avoid stains from rust; nails should be 
counter-sunk whenever it is likely that a bather will 
touch them in the hot room. Tongue-in-groove 
Paneling disposes of this problem in wall construc- 
tion; benches can be screwed from below. 
BUILDING A FINNISH SAUNA 
A practical arrangement: 1) small stools used as steps; 2) steps; 
3) rail for propping up feet; 4) platform; 5) headrest. 
(a) The thumbs remain in the air, and the finger 
Massage: Principles and Techniques 
Gertrude Beard and Elizabeth Wood 
1964; 163 pp. 
$6.00 postpaid 
from W. B. Saunders Company 
West Washington Square 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19105 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
In some instances, a fine unscented talcum powder 
or French chalk may be substituted for cold cream 
as a medium to prevent irritation of the patient’s 
skin, but usually it does not permit as satisfactory 
a grasping of the tissues as does a cream lubricant. 
tips [without breaking the contact they have main- 
tained at the temples in (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6)] 
simultaneously knead in small circles, starting at the 
temple (Fig. 134) and, following the hairline, con- 
tinuing back of the ears until the fingers meet at the 
cervical spine (Fig. 135). 
For the limbs, the stroke is usually in the centrifugal direction. The 
growth of hair naturally falls in this direction, and stroking performed 
in an opposite direction is unpleasant. The direction of the movement, 
once established, should be continued throughout the treatment. 
