bevy of pre schoolers is described, digested, and given 
educational depth by an extremely observant and articulate 
jucator, Mr. Holt. The great strength of his book is its 
adibility. His use of preschooler learning situations is 
lifferent light after reading this book probably ought to 
‘ite a book himself. 
: 
{Reviewed by Carol Guyton Goodell.] 
model.of what children are like. 
ne of my earliest recollections—actually by now | remember the 
elling of it rather than the event itself—was of playing in the park 
th a friend my own age—about three, perhaps four—who out of a 
clear blue sky hit me in the head with his toy shovel. We had been 
| playing peacefully; | never understood, then or later, why he hit me. 
. 
> 
never learn.’ | thought at first he was joking. 
Jhen | was little, children’s books contained mostly words and very 
ew 
pictures. We knew that if we wanted to find out the story, we 
ad 
to learn to read the words. Remembering this, | one day took 
ito a classroom of three-year-olds a book with no pictures in it at 
il, sat down in a corner, and in a quiet voice began to read it aloud. 
fter a while, some of the children began to notice, and listen. One 
One, they came over to see what | was reading. When they looked 
the book, and saw no pictures, they were at first surprised. Then, 
ter more watching and listening, quite a number of them would 
|, 
point to a word on the page and ask, ‘What does that say?’ | would 
| tell them. None of them stayed for long—it wasn’t a very interesting 
book. But they all grasped the vital idea, new to many of them, that 
2 
‘in 
some way those black marks on the page said something. 
is handy de-crisis book take a nice clean no-blame 
‘olutionary approach to things: what works this minute 
doesn’t work this minute. 
In their experience (high- 
_ 
environment of change. What’s nice is they aren't just 
threatening: they have gathered and published a strong 
ollection of technique. 
7 
1969; 219 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from 
Delacorte Press 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
lucation: helping students to unlearn much of what they ‘know.’ 
ish Billings said it almost a century ago: ‘The trouble ain’t that 
ple are ignorant; it’s that they ‘know’ so much that ain't so.’ 
at are some of the things these students know that ‘ain't so?’ 
|, for example, they ‘know’ that 1) the more ‘content’ a person 
ws,’ the better teacher he is; 2) that ‘content’ is best ‘imparted’ 
‘course of study’; 3) that ‘content’ is best kept ‘pure’ by 
about 15 weeks inc 
{er for 2 ‘course’ in a ‘subject’ to happen. 
jptions about ‘education’ are based on misinformation rather 
information. 
us, a literal translation of the statement of Bruner’s we quoted a 
ment ago would be something like this: ‘The task of teaching a 
Subject to a child is to make the child perceive objects and relation- 
sl ps the way authorities perceivethem.’ This sounds more like the 
education than a new one, especiallysbecause it directs the child 
erred to the ‘discovering your pendulum’ application of Bruner’s 
. The children are taught to ‘see’ exactly what the teacher 
them to see because that is the nature of the ‘subject.’ 
nother name for this is the Seductive Method of Learning. The 
pose of this method is identical with that of the old education: 
it the learner to ‘ventriloquize,’ 
‘ 
nstructor brought to class a black attaché case. He told the 
dents that inside the case there was a small computer which was 
ble of producing the answer to any question anyone asked. 
. 
t questions,’ !@ asked, ‘do you want it to answer?’ 
How Children Learn 
John Holt 
1967; 192 pp. 
$2.25 postpaid 
from 
Pitman Publishing Corp. 
20 East 46 Street 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
or 
WHOLE EARTH 
My aim in writing it is not primarily to persuade educators and 
psychologists to swap new doctrines for old, but to persuade them to 
look at children, patiently, repeatedly, respectfully, and to hold off 
making theories and judgments about them until they have in their 
minds what most of them do not now have—a reasonably accurate 
Perhaps it was this same overpowering urge to see what would happen. 
Teaching As a Subversive Activity 
Neil Postman and Charles Weingartner 
artmentalizing instruction; 4) that ‘content’ or ‘subject matter’ has a 
ical structure’ or ‘logical sequence’ that dictates how the ‘content’ 
uld be ‘imparted’; 5) that bigger schools are better than smaller schools; 
that smaller classes are better than bigger classes; 7) that ‘homogeneous 
rouping’ (with students ‘grouped’ on the basis of some real or fancied 
imilarity) ‘nakes the learning of subjects more efficient; 8) that classes 
st be held for ‘periods’ of about an hour in length, five days a week, 
only what some previous perceivers have seen. We have already 
JOHN HOLT HOW 
CHILDREN 
LEARN 
CATALOG 
Bill Hull once said to me, ‘If we taught children to speak, they'd 
Year after year we would see the same thing happen. Here would be 
a boy in the third or fourth grade who seemed so hopelessly clumsy, 
unathletic, and ignorant of all the rules and skills of baseball that it 
looked as if he could never learn to play. Two years later that same 
boy would be a competent and often an expert player—and many of | = 
them did almost all their playing at school, They learned, as! say, by ~~ 
watching the older boys who did it best, and trying to do what they 
did. 
Bee 
: 
As a matter of fact, they learned, on the whole, much better than the . 
boys at another school, at which | taught, where there was far more 
play space, more time given to sports, and where teachers tried to 
teach softball. The boys in this school spent a good deal of their 
sports time standing around watching while someone ‘explained’ 
something to them, 
st 
appropriate 
to 
the 
world 
in 
which 
we 
is 
new 
because 
it 
consists 
of 
having 
ali 
must 
live. 
All 
of 
these 
concepts 
constitute 
the 
dynamics 
of 
the 
Teaching as a 
meaning-making 
process 
that 
can 
be 
called 
This 
comprises 
a posture 
of 
stability 
from 
with 
change. 
The 
purpose 
is 
to 
help 
all 
shockproof 
crap 
detectors 
as 
basic 
equip- 
fe} 
* 
> 
* 
Ee = 
IPCI 
OE 
»} 
see 
A 
Subversive Activity ; 
gf 
ae 
4 
nO 
£= 
ge 
Ty 
A mpholds-hacred axcanlt an aandated 
c£ “3 
FN 
ies = 
teaching cacthos~ 
with dramatic and 
>c 
25259 
ae 
ae 
: 
cog 
forage 
practical proposals on haw education can 
0° 
c-= 
S 
be made refowaat o today’s wartd 
SoeS>o02Q = 
HES eae ea 
NEIL POSTMAY & CHARLES WEINGABTNER 
Soo seo 2 
Da 
35 O0%GH w 
®>5 
seUDsc 
S27 
090n7 
oeaccrer 
Corte cl ow 
oDESS LIVE 
e215 o.5 3 2 
Fa 
Cessna i= 
The teacher rarely tells students what he thinks they ought to know. 
His basic mode of discourse with students is questioning. 
Generally, he does not accept a single statement as an answer to a 
question. 
He encourages student-student interaction as opposed to student- 
teacher interaction. And generally he avoids acting as a mediator or 
judge of the quality of ideas expressed. 
He rarely summarizes the positions taken by students on the !earnings- 
that occur. 
His lessons develop from the responses of students and not from a 
previously determined ‘logical’ structure, 
Generally, each of his lessons poses a problem for students. 
He measures his success in terms of behavioral changes in students. 
Perhaps you have noticed that most examinations and, indeed, syllabi 
and curricula deal almost exclusively with the past. The future hardly 
exists in school. Can you remember ever asking or being asked in 
school a question like ‘If such and such occurs, what do you think 
will happen?’?. A question of this type is usually not regarded as 
‘serious’ and would rarely play a central role in any ‘serious’ 
examination. When a future-oriented question is introduced in 
school, its purpose is usually to ‘motivate’ or to find out how 
‘creative’ the students can be. But the point is that the world we live 
in is changing so rapidly that a future-orientation is essential for 
everybody. 
Its development in schools is our best insurance against a 
generation of ‘future shock’ sufferers. 
Here is a copy of a jetter, written by the mother of a boy who is at 
one of the schools in which children are not required to attend classes, 
but learn when, and what they like, with whatever help from the 
older people around them they may choose to ask for. The boy, 
who had been having great difficulty in his conventional school and 
had not learned to read, went to this school when he was seven. Two 
years later his mother wrote: 
...(he) has not, until the last month or so, attended 
a single class...yet in taking the Standard Achievement 
and |.Q. tests we find he is reading into the tenth grade, 
doing math into the ninth grade, working with electron- 
ice and in several other areas that are not offered in 
public schools, even to the high school student... 
The electronics suggests how this seeming miracle was accomplished. 
There are no electronics manuals, texts, and instruction books written 
for young children. To use them, you must be able to read words 
like ‘resistor,’ ‘capacitor,’ ‘potentiometer,’ and the like. No doubt 
this boy had to have help at first; but in learning to read the basic 
terms of electronics he undoubtedly got enough information about 
letters and sounds to enable him to read any words he met. To work 
in electronics, you must also know arithmetic, up through the deci- 
mals, so he had to learn that, too, along with a good deal about 
electricity and electric circuits. 
When, through such play and fantasy, the children had taken these 
materials into their minds, mentally swallowed and digested them, so 
to speak, they were then ready and willing to play very complicated 
games, that in the more organized and businesslike situation had left 
other children completely baffled. This proved to be so consistently 
true that the experimenters made it a rule always to let children have 
a period of completely free play with the materials, before asking 
them to do directed work with them. 
1. What do you hear if you are in a car and it is raining outside? 
What do you feel if you are standing outside? 
2. Describe the odor of gasoline. 
3. What sounds do you hear if you are walking with heavy boots in a 
deep snow? 
(Don’t use the word ‘crunch.’) 
4. What does hair feel like? Anybody’s hair. 
5. Describe the texture of skin. 
Feel it. 
6. How would you describe fear? 
|f you’ve never been afraid, don’t 
answer. 
If you have, you don’t have to answer either, unless you want 
to. 
7. Describe the odor of freshly cut grass. 
8. Describe the sensation of placing an ice cube against your lips. 
9. Is there a particular odor in the air before a rainfall? Describe it. 
10. Is there a particular odor in the air after a rainfall? Describe it. 
11. If your hand slides across a piece of silk,what sensation do you 
feel? 
12. If you were to walk barefoot along a beach of pebbles, what 
would you feel? 
13. What does your hand feel like? 
14. What does someone else’s hand feel like? 
15. Describe the taste of salt. 
16. Describe the flight of a seagull. 
When the answers had been written, the instructor asked for 
volunteers to share them, and selected one girl. She went to the 
board and wrote hsr responses. She was asked to write them without 
identifying numbers, so that it would look as if they were all of a 
piece, not 16 different reactions. What she wrote is reproduced, 
unedited, below. 
Soft rhythms on tin 
Torrents of miniwetness 
Odor spray 
Spreading, pushing, never toe touching ground 
Twisting strands—sometimes silky flowing, oil 
Smooth body, surface 
Filled with dread anticipation 
Moist flower fragrance 
A burning cold 
Wet heat, when first to breathe is dying 
In fresh clearance objects sparkle and air is pure 
A fiwely never broken woven texture 
Sharp, bumpy pains against the pad of feet 
Dry dampness underneath 
Bare-top dry 
Blue crystals on tongue 
All perfection, soaring through air with wings 
Outstretched, silhouetted against the cloud. 
As the student wrote her reactions on the board, the instructor 
asked several students in their seats to read aloud their responses, as 
if they were part of a whole, and not fragments. After several were 
read aloud, the instructor turned the attention of the class to the 
responses on the board. He read the responses aloud. 
INSTRUCTOR: What does that sound like? 
FIRST STUDENT: Some kind of poetry. 
SECOND STUDENT: 
Free verse. 
INSTRUCTOR: How can that be? 
[No response.] 
Why should a group of reactions sound like poetry? 
THIRD STUDENT: 
Because the same person wrote them. 
INSTRUCTOR: 
But what makes it hang together? 
[No response. ] 
It does hang together, doesn’t it? 
The students were soon saying that people write out of a well- 
integrated web of experiences and, no matter what they write, 
regardless of the descriptions, their phrases would seem to go 
together because ‘a person is together.’ They went on to formulate 
tentative hypotheses about personality integration, prose, poetry, 
how one writes, how one reads, and the difficulty a person who is 
‘not together’ would have with reading and writing. When asked if 
they had liked what they had written, the students answered with a 
unanimous ‘Yes.’ When asked if they would like to write a poem, 
they answered with a unanimous ‘No,’ 
INSTRUCTOR: 
But you enjoyed the writing in class. 
FIRST STUDENT: You didn’t say it was a poem, 
SECOND STUDENT: You tricked us. 
INSTRUCTOR: May | trick you some more? 
{Laughter.] 
