| 
Purposive Systems 
You're a purposive system. Soam |. We're very good at it, 
| 
and not as good as we’d like to be. Humanity, as a whole, is 
lousy at it, and worried. 
This collection of recent cybernetic 
thoughts can cheer you up and give you better concepts to 
worry with. 
Purposive Systems 
from 
Z 
i 
, J. D. White, 
Ed.: 
Heinz von Foerster 
i 
Eparian boas 
L. J. Peterson, J. K. Russell 
Her LT 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or 
$10.00 postpaid 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Aspects of Form 
Formmmmm mani padme form. 
1{t’s a useful sect, and this 
is a well-used collection of insights by venerable initiates. 
HERBERT REA 
Preface 
LANCELOT LAW WHYTE 
Introduction 
/ Chronological Survey 
on Form / Bibliography on Form 
S. P, F. HUMPHREYS-OWEN 
Inorganic Form 
Physical Principles Underlying 
Cc. C. L. GREGORY 
Astronomer 
Shape and Distance Considered by an 
€. H. WADDINGTON 
The Character of Biological Form 
F. G. GREGORY 
Form in Plants 
JOSEPH NEEDHAM 
Biochemical Aspects of Form and Growth 
ALBERT M. DALCQ’ 
Form and Modern Embryology 
HUGH B. CoTT 
Animal Form in Relation to Appearance 
KONRAD Z, LORENZ 
The Role of Gestalt Perception: in-Animal 
and-Human Behaviour 
W. GREY WALTER 
Activity Patterns in the Human Brain 
RUDOLPH ARNHEIM 
Gestalt Psychology and Artistic Form 
E. H. GOMBRICH 
Meditations on a Hobby Horse, or 
The Roots of Artistic Form 
General Systems Yearbook 
Good thinking, rotten publishing. 
The usual graphic output 
in this yearbook is three pallid diagrams. And you know that 
the mothers who wrote the articles are forever whacking away 
at their blackboards, but because typewriters don’t draw, all 
that vivid stuff gets left in the author's private experience. 
Man, there’s something suspect about General Systems Theory 
if the practitioners are this far out of intelligent communica- 
tion. Here’s the contents of the current volume; do your own 
vindicating. 
SYSTEMS 
GENERAL 
Yaorbook of the Society tor Genero! Systems Reseorsh 
VOLUME Xi 
1967 
Edited by 
LUDWIG von BERTALANFFY 
Universi ty of Alberto 
Eamonten, Conoda 
and 
ANATOL RAPOPORT 
Mentol Health Reseorch Institute 
The University of Michigan 
Ann Arbor, Michigen 
1968; 212 pp. 
from 
Society for General Systems Research 
Joseph Henry Building, Room 818 
432 Park Avenue South 
General Systems, Vol. 13 
Ludwig von Bertalanffy, Anato! Rapoport, 
Richard L. Meier, eds. 
$1 0.00 postpaid 
We have not yet built into our educational system any recognition of 
the points where precision is essential, and yet we are living in a society 
where one mistake can dislocate the lives of thousands of people, 
wreck distribution systems, and distort life-history data, and subsequent 
career lines. 
- 
| have always regarded a drop of water sliding down a slightly inclined 
plain as showing all the manifestations of purposeful behavior, 
It is 
going downhill because it ‘wants to get somewhere’ and it does so by 
an erratic and quite unpredictable path. Another, more obvious, exam- 
ple of purposeful behavior is that 9f a homing torpedo or missile or, 
also, for those af you who had the pleasure of seeing it, Shannan’‘s 
demonstration ax one of the early cybernetics conferences. 
He brought 
in a maze, a checkerboard of squares with wire walls and a true open 
throughway with a blind alley. His ‘subject,’ which he called a mouse, 
was propelled by motors in two coordinates. 
[t ran into walls all along 
the way, but finally, after innumerable blunders, it reached the end. 
Shannan then put the mouse back at the starting point and, without 
an error, it went directly through the correct path to the end. This 
was purposeful behavior in the best sense; it was learning in the best 
sense; and the mechanism producing it was elegant and simple in the 
best sense. The machinery was simply set so that the direction in which 
the mouse left a given square for the last time was the one it ‘remem- 
bered’ and, since the only time it never came back was when it was on 
the right path, it was automatically programmed for completely ‘pur- 
poseful’ and correct behavior. 
Man, of course,spends his life riding two rails—the rail of the desired, 
what he wants the future to be like for him, and the rail of the expected, 
what he thinks or fears it’s going to be. 
Two evaluations are necessary: 
one before and one after the innova- 
tion. The first is an evaluation of prospects. The second is an evalua- 
tion of results. The uncertainty inherent in technological innovation 
means there will usually be a difference between the two. To that 
extent, new technology will lead to value change. 
There is no basic reason why one cannot design a control memory 
with a different technology, a technology which would allow the 
computer itself to alter the information stored in the control memory. 
Thus we would have a computer that could alter its own character 
as 
required. To my knowledge very little conceptual work has been done 
— 
in thinking through the implications of this extremely powerful possi- 
bility. The possibilities are so staggering and deep. The poor harried 
4 
souls responsible for trying to understand the classical computer aswe 
now know it wish this idea would go away. 
‘ 
: 
The act of choosing a representation for a problem involves the speci- 
fication of a space where the search for solution can take place. Such 
a specification involves the choice of a language—and its use—for 
expressing problem conditions, properties of solutions, and 
knowledge of regularities in the search space. 
If we detach the concern of survival from computers, as is generally _ 
the case, they can learn abilities more useful to man than the strugg}l 
for existence. 
i 
E 
Exaggerated politeness is a powerful source of misunderstanding. 
— 
Thc great symbol of the eolithic impulse, submerged but not suppressed, 
is the junkman. Both he and his customers suffer from social disestee! 
because they do not bow to the dominant principle of design. The 
logic of the design principle eats farther into the organization of life 
— 
when designers go from uniformity of materials to uniformity of parts — 
and kits whose mass production eliminates all competing intermediate 
species. Thus, more and more it happens that a practical man, wanting 
to satisfy his individual and, by the new standard, eccentric wants, 
is — 
forced to improvise with materials never intended for these purposes, 
In the interest of mass production, men’s goals themselves are forced 
into restricted and stereotype patterns. 
A friend of mine once gave what | regard as a nice shorthand formula. 
When in a dilemma,introduce novelty. 
aS 
Regularity seeking activities that seem to be generally useful include 
— 
the detection of symmetries, the identification of ‘critical points’ 
(key points through which the search «just go to get a solution), and 
the recognition of redundant information in problem descriptions. 
PEDESES 
ID ES IO EOE 
SEO ED ES ED ISIE SO SO ED ED ED EEG EOE ED IED OD EDS 
PRP LDP AD DAD ADID DID ADD AD ADE DDIND ADD: 
between which any connection seemed at first wildly i 
ERPS 
fabric into which is woven the pattern of the probabili 
events are significantly related. 
An ‘image’ in this biological sense, then, is not an imitation of an ob- 
ject’s external form but an imitation of certain privileged or relevant 
aspects. 
It is here that a wide field of investigation would seem 
We know that there are certain privileged motifs in our world to which 
we respond almost too easily. The human face may be outstanding 
among them. Whether by instinct or by very early training, we 
certainly are ever disposed to single out the expressive features ofa 
face from the chaos of sensations that surrounds it and to respond to 
its slightest variations with fear or joy. 
FIG. 2 
PART |. METHODOLOGY 
Science and System: On the Unity and Diversity of 
Scientific Theory 
by Peter Caws 
An Approach to General Systems Theory 
by George J. Klir 
Concerning the Analysis of Initial Principles and 
Conceptions of Formal Logic 
by G. P. Schedrovitsky 
PART Il. CONTROL THEORY 
Technosphere, Biosphere, and Sociosphere: An Approach 
to Their Systems and Optimization 
: 
, 
by J. H. Milsum 
Representation and Analysis of Signals: Statistical Estimation 
of Intrinsic Dimensionality and Parameter Identification 
by Gerard V. Trunk 
Notes for a Generalized Theory of Interfaces 
by E. Taschdjian 
PA 
Toward a Theory of Teleogenetic Control Systems 
by N. A. Coulter, Jr. 
by P. E. Chase 
Uncoupling Spatial Systems 
by Roslyn Lindheim 
PART II!l. ECOSYSTEM 
Environment and Historical Paradox 
by Philip C. Ritterbush 
Aspects of the Future of Ecology 
by Lawrence B. Slobodkin 
: 
2100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 20006 
The appearance of symmetry is an invariable characteristic of growth 
whether it be of a living or non-living system;.... 
A man may learn by experience to associate two series of events 
such associations to be possible, provision must be made for every 
signal entering the nervous system to be relayed to every part, not 
merely to the specialised receiving zone. Thus from the knot of an 
event is generated a web of speculation; when two series of events are 
perceived together they form the warp and woof of a shimmering 
Copperhead Snake—illustrating the effectiveness of disruptive 
y. 
contrast in relation to background configuration. (Sec page 126). 
The Relevance of Arms Race Theory to Arms Control 
mprobable. 
For 
ty that the two 
to open. 
Aspects of Form 
Lancelot Law Whyte, ed. 
1951; 249 pp. 
$1 .95 postpaid 
from 
Indiana University Press 
10th and Morton Streets 
Bloomington, Ind. 47401. 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
AUN SUNST NSU SS ASC NAS 
RT IV. SOCIAL ORGANIZATION 
Aquatic Communities and the Problems of Water Quality 
by Ruth Patrick 
Some Methodological and Statistical Problems of 
Medical Research in Teratology 
by Erwin K. Scheuch 
The Emergence of a Systemic Concept for Public Governance 
by Harry J. Hartley 
: 
A General Model of Resource Allocation in a Democracy 
by Bruno Frey 
Engineering Concepts and the Behavioral Sciences 
by George G. Lamb 
Growth Curves of Empires 
by Rein Taagepera 
Theory of Status 
by T. J. Fararo 
Three-Person Games with Imperfect Coalitions: 
A Sociologically Relevant Concept in Game Theory 
by Robert Reichardt 
A Note on the Enumeration of All 2 x 2 Games 
by Melvin Guyer and Henry Hamburger 
A General Systems Party 
by Richard L. Meier 
