The Ghost in the Machine 
Koestler’s latest book seems to be sharing the fate of Norman 
O. Brown’s Love’s Body : the book after the big influential 
one (Act of Creation, Life Against Death) is considered too 
far out, fragmented, excessive... and sells half-heartedly. 
Nevermind, 
Koestler here is doing useful dirty work: sav- 
aging rat psychology, exploring broader implications of bio- 
logical systems research, and foreseeing our imminent de- 
mise unless we organize our brain-use better. Which brings 
him to drugs. He proposes research to find a chemical which 
will voluntarily disengage old-brain from new-brain—the inte- 
rior emotional kill-heavy unreprogrammable stuff from exte- 
rior rational flexible stuff. Our paranoia is accidentally des- 
igned in, he suggests, and may be designed out. 
Get to it, outlaws. No nation is going to support this research. 
from: 
Macmillan Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, Burlington County 
New Jersey 08075 
The Ghost in the Machine 
Arthur Koestler 
1967; 384 pp. 
or 
$6.95 postpaid 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The Year 2000 
ls Herman Kahn the bad guy (as liberal opinion would have 
it) or a good guy (as in some informed opinion)? Kahn will 
hang you on that question and while you're hanging jam infor- 
mation and scalding notions into your ambivalence. He does 
this best with a live audience, but this book is a fine collect- 
ion of the information he uses. 
Here is most of the now-basic methodology of future study— 
multi-fold trends, surprise-free projections, scenarios, etc. 
And here are their results. (t’s the best future-book of the 
several that are out. 
In my opinion, it is not particularily an accurate picture of 
the future but the most thorough picture we have of the 
present—the present statistics, present fantasies, present ex- 
spectations that we’re planning with. We are what we think 
our future is. 
If computer capacities were to continue to increase by a factor of ten 
every two or three years until the end of the century ( a factor. between 
a hundred billion and ten quadrillion), then all current concepts about 
computer limitations will have to be reconsidered. Even if the trend 
continues for only the next decade or two, the jmnrovements over 
current computers would’be factors of ' thousands to millions. 
If we 
add the likely enormous improvements in input-output devices, pro- 
gramming and problem formulation, and better understanding of the 
basic phenomena being studied, manipulated, or simulated, these esti- 
mates of improvement may be wildly conservative. And even if the 
rate of change slows down by several factors, there would still be room 
in the next thirty-three years for an overall improvement of some five 
to ten orders of magnitude. Therefore, it is necessary to be skeptical 
of any sweeping but often meaningless or nonrigorous statements such 
as ‘‘a computer is limited by the designer--it cannot create anything he 
does not put in,” or that “’ a computer cannot be truly creative or 
original.”” By the year 2000, computers are likely to match, simulate, 
or surpass some of man’s most “human-like’”’ intellectual abilities, 
including perhaps some of his aesthetic and creative capacities, in ad- 
dition to having some new kinds of capabilities that human beings do 
not have. These computer capacities are not certain; however, it is an 
open question what inherent limitations computers have. If it turns 
out that they cannot duplicate or exceed certain characteristically 
human capabilities, that will be one of the most important discoveries 
of the twentieth century. 
The Year 2000 
Herman Kahn and Anthony J. Wiener | 
1967;" 431 pp. 
9 $9.95 postpaid 
2 
from: 
The Macmillan Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, Burlington County 
New Jersey 08075 
o r 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ESCAPE FROM SPECIALIZATION 
There is now strong evidence in favour of the theory, proposed by 
Garstang as far back as 1928, that the chordates—and thus, we, the 
verebrates—are descended from the larval stage of some primitive 
echinoderm, perhaps rather like the sea-urchin or sea cucumber 
(echinoderm =" prickly-skinned’).. Now an adult sea cucumber 
would not be a very inspiring ancestor—it is a sluggish creature which 
looks like an ill-stuffed sausage with leathery skin, lying on the sea 
bottom. But its free-floating larva is a much more promising propo- 
sition: unlike the adult sea cucumber, the larva has bilateral sym- 
metry like a fish; it has a ciliary band—a forerunner of the nervous 
system— and some other sophisticated features not found in the 
adult animal. We must assume that the sedentary adult residing on the 
the sea bottom had to rely on mobile larvae to spread the species far 
and wide in the ocean, as plants scatter their seeds in the wind; that 
the larvae, which had to fend for themselves, exposed to much strong- 
er selective pressures than the adults, gradually became more fish- 
like ;and that eventually-they became sexually mature while still in 
the free-swimming, larval state—thus giving rise to a new type of ani- 
mal which never settled on the bottom at all, and altogether elim- 
inated the senile, sedentary cucumber stage from its life history. 
This speeding up of sexual maturation relative to the development 
of the rest of the body—or,to put it differently, the gradual retard- 
ation of bodily development beyond the age of sexual maturation— 
is a familiar evolutionary phenomenon, known as neoteny. 
Its 
result is that the animal begins to breed while still displaying larval 
or juvenile features; and it frequently happens that the fully adult 
stage is never reached—it is dropped off the life cycle. 
This tendency towards a ‘prolonged childhood’, with the correspond- 
ing squeezing.out of the final adult stages, amounts to a rejuvenation 
and de-specialization of the race—an escape from the cul-de-sac in the 
evolutionary maze. As J.Z. Young wrote, adopting Garstang’s views: 
‘The problem which remains is in fact not “how have vertebrates been 
formed from sea squitts?’’, but ‘‘how have vertebrates eliminated the 
(adult) sea squirt stage from their life history? It is wholly reasonable 
to consider that this has been accomplished py paedomorphosis.... 
. 
Neoteny in itself is of course not enough to produce these evolution- 
ary bursts of adaptive radiations. The ‘rejuvenation’ of the race merely 
provides the opportunity for evolutionary changes to operate on the 
early, malleable phases of ontogeny: hance paedomorphosis, ‘the 
shaping of the young’. 
|n contrast to it, gierontomorphosis (geras = 
old age) is the modification of fully adult structures which are highly 
specialized. This sounds like a rather technical distinction, but it is 
in fact of vital importance. Gerontomorphosis cannot lead to radical 
changes and new departures; it can only carry an already specialized 
evolutionary line one more step further in the same direction—as a 
rule into the dead end of the maze. .... 
DRAW BACK TO LEAP 
It seems that this retracing of steps to escape the dead ends of the 
maze was repeated at each decisive evolutionary turning point. | 
have mentioned the evolution of the vertebrates from a larval form 
of some primitive echinoderm. Insects have in all likelihood emerged 
from a millipede-like ancestor—not, however, from adult millipedes, 
whose structure is too specialized, but from its larval forms. The 
conquest of the dry land was initiated by amphibians whose ancestry 
goes back to the most primitive type of lung-breathing fish; whereas 
the apparently more successful later lines of highly specialized gill- 
breathing fishes all came to a dead end. The same story was repeated 
at the next major step, the reptiles, who derived from early, primitive 
amphibians-not from any of the later forms that we know. 
And lastly, we come to the most striking case of paedomorphosis, 
the evolution of our own species. 
It is now generally recognized that 
the human adult resembles more the embryo of an ape rather than an 
adult ape. 
A FRAMEWORK 
FOR SPECULATION ON 
THE NEXT THIRTY-THREE YEARS 
Demonstrating the new techniques of the 
think tanks. thes book projects what our 
‘own world most probably will. 
be like a generation from now— 
and gives alternatives. 
by HERMAN KAHN 
and ANTHONY J. WIENER 
Introduction by DANIEL BELL 
TABLE 
IX 
The Postindustrial (or Post-Mass Consumption) Society 
I. Per capita income about fifty times the preindustrial 
N 
rather than primary or secondary (production-oriented) 
_ 
3. Business firms no longer the major source of innovation 
4. There may be more “consentives” (vs. “marketives”’) 
5. Effective floor on income and welfare 
6. Efficiency no longer primary 
7. Market plays diminished role compared to public sector and “‘social 
accounts” 
8. Widespread “‘cybernation”™ 
g. “Small world” 
s 
10. Typical “doubling time” between three and thirty years 
11, Learning society 
12. Rapid improvement in educational institutions and techniques 
13. Erosion 
(in middle 
class) 
of work-oriented, 
achievement-oriented, 
ad- 
vancement-oriented values 
14. Erosion of “national interest” values 
i5. Sensate, secular, humanist, perhaps self-indulgent criteria become central, 
_ 
ization—to the koala bear. Eventually there is a crisis and a new 
. Most “economic” activities are tertiary and quaternary (service-oriented), 
Figure 10 is from Garstang's original’paper, and is meant to represent 
the process of evolution 
by paedomorphosis. Z to ZgQ is the progress- 
ion of zygotes (fertilized eggs) along the evolutionary ladder; A to AQ 
represents the adult forms resulting from each zygote. Thus the black 
line from 24 to A4, for instance, represents ontogeny, 
the transforma 
tion of egg into adult: the dotted line from /\ to Ag represents ohylo- 
geny—the evolution of higher torms. But note tnat the thin lines of - 
evolutionary progress do not lead directly from, say, A4 to A5 —that 
would be gerontomorphosis, the evolutionary transformation of an 
adult form. The line of progress branches off from the unfinished, 
embryonic stage of A4. This represents a kind of evolutionary retreat. 
from the finished product, and a new departure towards the evolution 
ary novelty Z5 — AS. A4 could be the adult sea cucumber: then the 
branching-off point on the line A4d—Z4 would be its larva; or A8 could 
be the adult primate ancestor of man, and the branching-off point its 
émbryo—which is so much more like the Ag—ourselves. 
FIGURE 10 
see text 
(after Garstang); 
But Garstang’s diagram could also represent a fundamental aspect of 
the evolution of ideas........ 
: 
° 
The revolutions in the history of science are successful escapes from 
blind alleys. The evolution of knowledge is continuous only during 
those periods of consolidation and elaboration which follow a major 
break-through. Sooner or later, however, consolidation leads to in- 
creasing rigidity, orthodoxy, and so into the dead end of overspecial- 
‘break-through’ out of the blind alley—followed by another period of 
consolidation, 
a new orthodoxy and so the cycle starts again. 
But the theoretical structure which emerges from the break-through | 
is not buijt on top of the previous ediface; it branches out from the 
point where progress has gone wrong. The great revolutionary 
turns in the evolution of ideas have a decidedly paedomorphic 
character. Each zygote in the diagram would represent a seminal 
— 
idea, the seed out of which a new theory devalops until it reaches Its_ 
adult, fully matured stage. One might call this the ontogeny ofa 
theory. The history of science is s series of such ontogenies. True 
novelties are not derived directly from a previous adult theory, but 
from a new seminal idea—not from the sedentary sea urchin but from 
its mobile larva. Only in the quiet periods of consolidation do we 
find gerontomorphosis—small improvements added to a fully grown, 
established theory. ....... 
: 
At first sight the analogy may appear far-fetched; | shall try to show 
that it has a solid factual basis. Biological evolution is to a large ex- 
tent a history of escapes from the blind alleys of overspecialization, 
the evolution of ideas a series of escapes from the bondage of mental 
— 
habit; and the escape mechanism in both cases is based on the prin- 
ciple of undoing and re-doing, the draw-backto-leap pattern. 
The Futurist 
In part because the Future is a new field of methodic study 
this is a lively newsletter. 
[t reports bi-monthly on new 
books and programs having anything to do with social fore- 
casting. Future study is like education: everybody thinks 
they‘re good at it. The newsletter has some of that diluted 
flavor, but it doesn’t matter. 
Useful pointing at useful 
activities done here. 
5) 
from: 
£ 
World Future Society 
P.O. Box 19285 
> 
20th Street Station 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
The Futurist 
$5 for one year 
PET
A AT
RR
Ai the DADW About the ature 
What Goats 
3 
The Seve, Navssk to 
tori 
The Menem Zaydowon 
She 
MS 
ee 
SS 
ie 
