Population, Evolution, and Birth Control 
Once youve woken up to the population squeeze and the 
blindness of most of your fellow men, it’s worth looking 
around. 
Garret Hardin has assembled a strong selection of 
eyes to look around with. Here are the ingredients for 
understanding. Now, how do we get the mule’s attention? 
The closed earth of the future requires economic principles 
which are somewhat different from those of the open earth 
of the past, For the sake of picturesqueness, | am tempted to 
call the open economy the ‘cowboy economy,’ the cowboy 
being symbolic of the illimitable plains and also associated with 
reckless, exploitative, romantic, and violent behavior, which 
is characteristic of open societies. The closed economy of the 
future might similarly be called the ‘spaceman’ economy, in 
which, therefore, man must find his place in a cyclical ecologi- 
cal system which is capable of continuous reproduction of 
material form even though it cannot escape having inputs of 
energy. 
If the food supply is falling short, or a new disease threatens 
us, inventions to relieve it must be made before famine and 
pestilence have done their work. Now, we are far nearer to 
famine and pestilence than we like to think. 
Let there be an 
interruption of the water supply of New York for six hours, 
and it will show in the death rate. 
Let the usual trains bring- 
ing supplies into the city be interrupted for forty-eight hours, 
and some people wil! die of hunger. Every engineer who has 
to deal with the administration of the public facilities of a great 
city has been struck with terror at the risks which people are 
willing to undergo and must undergo every day, and at the 
complacent ignorance of these risks on the part of his charges... 
Man’s Domain 
. 
Man’s Domain 
General Drafting Co. 
1968; 75 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
from 
McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
Princeton Road 
Hightstown, N. J. 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Mo. 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
Novato, CA 94947 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Cosmic View 
“The Universe in 40 Jumps” is the subtitle of 
the book. 
/t delivers. 
The man who conceived and rendered it, a 
®utch schoolmaster named Kees Boeke, gave 
years of work to perfecting the information 
in his pictures, 
The result is one of the sim- 
plest, most thorough, inescapable mind blows 
ever printed. 
Your mind and you advance in 
and out 
through the universe, changing scale 
by a factor of ten. 
It very quickly becomes 
hard to breath, and you realize how magni- 
tude-bound we've been. 
Cosmic View 
Kees Boeke 
1957; 48 pp. 
$4.50 postpaid 
from: 
The John Day Company 
62 West 45th Street 
New York, N.Y. 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
Norbert Wiener 
/ scarcely believe it. An inexpensive, paperback, lightweight 
but complete World Atlas that skips all the political planetary 
persiflage and goes straight to the guts: climate, minerals, 
agriculture, population, languages, land forms, ocean forms.— 
all the remorseless factors that have been invisible to most of 
humanity until recently. Nice work, McGraw-Hill, you whipped 
Rand-McNally and Hammond at their own game. Now how 
about a globe that does the same thing? (Like it’s physical 
geography with the inside light off, dynamic geography— 
climate, transportation, population—when you turn the light 
on.) [Hm. | see they do have a Globegraphic System— 
consisting of sets of transparencies for overhead projection 
onto a 36-inch inflatable outliné globe.’ We're going to press, 
too late to check.] 
& THEMATIC 
Bi tink Creer | 
THE UNIVERSE IN 40 JLIMPS 
Spee ther Mood aad imac: 
ayene w Yeo edge o' 
sxeaugh dxcromning nator at 
ronsteo’s ecoadinece-=nint @ saecon of 
Browrdngs onan 
eras Trem al paint ren Gees farther er (en 
Rene efaceer Ronn thre ravine 
by KEES BOEKE 
Robrenbeestions by 
ARTHUR H. COMPTON 
The rest of the night | Jay there sleepless, trapped between the 
quavering human cry in the night and the cold fact that forced 
me to know | could not save him or the thousands of others 
whose cries | could not hear. The next morning they came 
and told us that the beggar was dead. 
Gerald Winfield 
Population, Evolution, 
and Birth Control ° 
Garrett Hardin, ed. 
1964, 69; 386 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from 
W. H. Freeman & Co. 
660 Market St. 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
We must once again declare that the direct interruption of the genera- 
tive process already begun, and, above all, directly willed and procured 
abortion, even if for therapeutic reasons, are to be absolutely excluded 
as licit means of regulating birth. 
Equally to be excluded, as the teaching authority of the Church has 
frequently declared, is direct sterilization, whether perpetual or 
temporary, whether of the man or of the woman. Similarly excluded 
is every action which, either in anticipation of the conjugal act or in 
its accomplishment, or in the development of its natural consequences, 
proposes, whether as an end or as a means, to render procreation 
i 
ible. 
impossible 
Pope Paul V1 
And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and 
multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion 
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every 
living thing that moveth upon the earth. 
5. Abortion is the most widely used single method of birth control 
in the world today. 
6. A properly performed abortion is much less dangerous than a 
normal childbirth. The most recent experience indicates that surgical 
abortion (’D and C’—dilation and curettage), as carried out legally in 
eastern Europe, is only one-eighth as dangerous as a normal childbirth 
in the United States (with complicated childbirths the contrast is even 
greater). A vacuum method of early abortion, first developed in Russia 
and now being used in England and America, will undoubtedly prove 
even safer. 
7. Abortion does not produce sterility. An incompetently performed 
one can, of course. 
8. Abortion, when legal, need not be expensive. 
|!n Roumania, it 
costs less than $2.00. We should not expect such a bargain in the 
United States, but $25.00 would perhaps be a reasonable fee by 
American standards. The essential thing is to perform the abortion 
early (before the 12th week). 
If it is performed early there is no 
need for a hospital; a clinic or a doctor’s office will do. (You can’t 
get in and out of an American hospital for less than two hundred 
dollars.) 
Garrett Hardin 
Chapter III 
Sturmius held, that the examination of the eye was a cure for atheism. 
William Paley 
5: anis
iaeee 
ca
Ry 
