The Armchair Shopper’s Guide 
This cheerful book is an uncommonly practical compendium 
of access. 
Listed here are all of the major and many of the 
minor mail order shippers in the world. 
To a large extent 
the shippers carry items not available locally. 
Each source 
is very well described and compared with its competitors. 
The Armchair Shopper’s Guide is more general than us, and 
geared to wealthier readers, but if you use the WHOLE 
EARTH CATALOG very much, you can almost certainly 
use the Shopper's Guide. 
You'll have to pay the sales tax if the mail-order house is located in 
your own state or municipality, but you aren’t required to pay it to 
firms in other states, nor may they charge you their local sales taxes. 
Although this has always held true for most mail-order firms, in the 
past such big houses as Sears, Roebuck and Co. made a practice of 
collecting the various local sales taxes from their customers and passing 
them on to the state or city involved. However, a recent court ruling 
has declared this illegal. So, if you live in a place such as New York 
City you can save a pretty penny (5 percent) by buying by mail from 
out-of-state firms. 
The Ollech and Wajs Watch Co., 8039, Zurich, Switzerland (catalog 
free) deals mainly in specialty watches for sportsmen and technicians. 
Men’s watches begin at $13 for a 17-jewel skindivers’ shockproof 
model that has a revolving bezel for giving time in two zones simul- 
taneously or for counting elapsed time. There’s a watch that doubles 
as a slide rule and, most expensive of all, the ‘SMT Roboter 17-jewel 
Pilot and Diving Chronograph,’ which looks like something out of the 
Orientalia Bookshop, Inc., 11 East 12th Street, N. Y., N. Y. 10003 
(catalogs free): This house specializes in books on Asia and the East, 
in all areas (and many languages). 
Eddie Bauer, 417 East Pine St., Seattle, Wash. 98122 (catalog free): 
_ Although some items of trail equipment are available here, notably 
sleeping bags manufactured by the firm, clothes are the main offering. 
Handsomely styled casuals, as well as outfits for the serious outdoor 
man and woman, featuring insulated garments made in the firm’s own 
plant, are available, as well as some festive long underwear. 
Hall Boot Co., P. O. Box 17246, El Paso, Texas 79917 (catalog free) 
has a huge selection of made-to-measure Western and English type 
boots, both American-made and imported, including unusual as well 
as traditional styles. 
: 
peat 
For used encyclopedias and other reference books, free price lists 
are available from The Reference Book Center, 159 West 33 St., 
N. Y., N.Y. 10001, and The Literary Mart, 1265 Broadway, N. Y., 
N. Y. 10001. 
: 
1968; 218 pp. 
$1.50 postpaid 
Consumer Reports 
. 
fal 
Y 
Consumer Reports is a comfort, When the time is come to 
a) 
buy some goodie—color television, or a hi-fi, or a sewing 
machine—CU (Consumers Union) is there with the information 
on what's the best, or the best buy, or the healthiest of the 
brands available. 
|.e.: how not to get burned: (one antici- 
pates the CU research on brand-name psychedelics). 
Consumer Reports is a monthly magazine with articles on 
various classes of products and various cases of marketing 
misbehavior; the December issue is the Buying Guide—a 
dense compendium of all the quality/price information, 
available separately for $1.95. | only wish the magazine 
would print ads, give the manufacturers a place.to beef back, 
liven up the Liberal Hour. 
BUYING A USED CAR 
ON-THE-LOT TESTS 
a" 
1. Study highlights and reflections along body surfaces; areas that show ripples, 
bumps, or grainy surface indicate repaired sheet metal damage. Slight mismatches 
in color provide a clue to the extent of a damaged area, and extensive visible re- 
pairs dictate more basic inspection, such as the Shop Testing procedure recom- 
mended on page 405. 
2. Examine lower edges of body, areas behind bumpers, and rocker panels below 
doors for rusted-out spots; also check door sills and surrounding floor and inside 
the trunk for rusted-through areas. Surface pimples, pitting, or blemishes may: indi- 
cate rusting under paint, and gentle probing with a fingertip may reveal crumbling 
sheet metal. In general, an automobile that has extensive rusted-out areas should be 
rejected. 
3. Operate all windows, door locks, and seat adjustments (power-adjusted seats 
and power windows should be avoided where possible, especially in an older car). 
Check doors for easy, solid closure. 
4.. Examine the car’s interior for signs of hard use or abuse, such as depressions 
in the seats (especially the driver’s), badly worn pedal pads or floor mats, paint 
worn off steering wheel rim, stains on upholstery indicating leaks, and badly worn 
tires, including the spare. Uneven wear on any tire may indicate trouble in the 
front end; repairs, $10 to $100. 
5. Step down on the brake pedal, holding pressure steady for at least a minute. 
If the pedal continues to sink, even gradually, repair of this malfunction may cost 
from $10 to $60. 
: 
6. Start the engine, listening carefully for loud noises while the starter is oper- 
ating and when the engine starts. See that all gauges or warning lights for oil 
pressure and generator go on when the ignition is turned on, that gauges work 
properly, and that warning lights go out after the engine starts running. If mal- 
function is noted, reject the car or reserve judgment on it until an independent 
mechanic sees it. 
7. With the help of another person, check to see if the headlights (high and low 
beam), tail lights, brake lights, and turn indicators are in working order. Repair 
is usually inexpensive (50¢ to $10) but can mean annoying trips to the shop. 
8. Grasp a front wheel at the top with both hands and shake it to and from you 
vigorously. A lot of free play or clunking sounds are signs of loose or worn wheel 
bearings or of worn suspension joints; repairs, $20 to $100. 
9. Push down rhythmically on each corner of the car in succession so as to set it 
bouncing. The car, when you release it, should move either up or down, not both 
ways, then stop at an equilibrium position. Freer:motion suggests worn shock ab- 
sorbers, which should be replaced for safety as well as comfort (at $15 to $20 a pair). 
Turning back odometers: A swindle that can be stopped 
CONSUMER REPORTS 
future with its revolving bezel, telemetric scale, five-minute yacht 
racing calibration, and whatnot, costing $65. (Only one style is 
offered for women at this house, a 17-jewel diving watch at around 
$13, $33 if you want a self-winding model.) 
Pine Hills Herb Farm, P. O. Box 307, Roswell, Ga. 30075 (brochure 
free) also has an extensive collection of herbs, all organically grown. 
In addition, they put out a book for tyro herbalists which is $1 by 
itself or 50¢ with an order. 
The Armchair Shopper’s Guide 
Delphine C. Lyons 
from: 
: 
Essandess Special Editions 
~ 
Simon and Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10020 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Station Wagons 
Fabric Softeners 
m 
Caulking Compounds 
Coffee Urns and 
Small Coffee-Makers 
Consumer Reports 
$6.00/ yr. (monthly) U.S. 
$6.50 Canada, Latin America, Spain 
$7.00 elsewhere 
from 
Consumers Union 
Mount Vernon, N. Y. 10550 
Consumer Reports Buying Guide 
$1 .95 postpaid 
from 
Consumers Union 
Mount Vernon, N. Y. 10550 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
CU’S KEY FINDINGS 
If you’re in the market for a crowd-sized coffee- 
the Mirro-Matic M0130 (a Best Buy $13.95), the 
General Electric CU1, the Wards 45516, the West 
Bend 7210 and the Sunbeam AP5OA. All were check- 
rated and all could make good coffee, as CU defines 
it, over their entire capacity range. Among the small, 
five- or six-cup pots, on the other hand, CU found 
think you’re more likely to be satisfied with a some- 
. 
what larger pot, such as the Corning Ware PS8OEP, 
Universal UP8, Proctor-Silex 70501 or Wards 45426. 
The Mirro-Matic M0130 at right (and most others) has a spigot 
high enough for a 314-inch cup. The Westinghouse at left is one 
that would make you tilt the cup or set the urn at table-edge 
AUDIO SYSTEMS 
I—HIGH-POWER ECONOMY SYSTEM, approximately $515; $745 with tape deck 
Pll 
Output power is adequate for rooms up to 7000 cu. ft. 
Pickup Cartridge—Grado BTE, $19.95. A Best Buy cartridge with elliptical stylus. 
Turntable—AR XA, $78. This was the only check-rated manual turntable in our 
most recent tests, and A Best Buy. 
: 
Changer—Miracord PW 620, $89.50. You can have the added convenience of a 
changer for the added $10 or so, but with somewhat higher flutter and rumble than 
in the AR XA turntable, but these faults will not be audible in most music. 
Tape Deck—Sony TC-355, $229.50. 
Receiver—Lafayette LR-1500T, $299.95 plus shipping. 
: 
Loudspeakers—Acoustic Research AR-4X, $57 each. Alternative (where small 
speaker size is important): ADC 404, $56 each. 
: 
Pause Nixon brought home from Europe last winter 
some news that may hit consumers squarely in the wallet. 
The President’s news, couched as it was in dry-as-dust — 
references to tariffs, import quotas and other intricacies 
of international trade, was scarcely meant to arouse pub- 
lic concern; it was, rather, intended to reassure American 
— 
manufacturers who have been crying for protection against 
foreign competition. What Mr. Nixon said he had done 
was to urge European governments, in no uncertain terms, 
© 
to cut back on the volume of certain goods their industries 
— 
are selling in this country. 
. 
COS 
We’d advise that, to get the right amount of inflation, 
you blow up 
point where 
just smoothed 
just stay straight on your 
outstretched arms. 
Inflat- 
beyond 
ing 
would make the mattress 
and 
You can 
inflate most air mattresses 
too 
firm 
by mouth in 
but the process is a lot more strenuous, 
the mattress only to the 
the surface wrinkles 
are 
out and the mattress will 
that 
point 
the 
material. 
strain 
three to seven minutes— 
maker, we found five good models to choose among: — 
none that we could unreservedly recommend. We 
We reported approvingly on those last September. 
— 
88 
DRIVING TESTS 
Never buy a used car without at least a short drive. Better still, conduct the follow- 
ing driving tests, which require no special driving skills and impose no undue strain 
on a car’s machinery. Listen for all noises, squeaks, and rattles; if they are abun- 
dant, reject the car. 
you’d find, than blowing up a balloon. We suggest a pump. 
We tested five air-mattress pumps and found three that 
could do a satisfactory job with all our mattresses: the 
Comfy accordion-shaped model, $2.35; the Wards 9494, 
$1.95 plus shipping; and the Hirsch-Weis 2116, $1.75. 
