: Farmers of Forty Centuries 
 . 
fe 
| have come more and more strongly to believe that the 
ultimate moral goal, even the moral necessity, of the American 
people must be to become the aborigines of the American land. 
An aborigine, my dictionary says, is “an indigenous inhabitant 
| ...@8 contrasted with an invading or colonizing people.’ An 
| indigenous people is one ‘living naturally in a particular region 
| or environment.’ In general, aborigines are preservers of their 
_ land, whereas invaders or colonizers are the exploiters and 
| 
destroyers of theirs. White Americans have for the most part 
| 
_ remained the invaders and colonizers of the American contin- 
_ ent; their relationship to the land has remained economic, 
_ exploitive, superficial, destructive. American history is to a 
_ fearful extent the history of a group of mercenary nomads, 
_ exhausting the land as they have moved over it. 
Farmers of Forty Centuries 
F.H. King 
1811; 441 pp. 
~ 
$5.00 postpaid 
from 
Hillary House Publishers, Ltd. 
303 Park Avenue South 
New York, New York 10010 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A great mistake has been to assume that people could become 
_ American in any sense that would be meaningful and ennobling 
by means of the souped-up emotions of public patriotism, 
nationalism. 
The fact is that meaningful native Americanism 
_ 
would have to involve a complexly reverent and knowing and 
__ preserving attitude toward the land; it would manifest itself 
not only in public fervor but in private behavior; and it would 
and urban our society becomes, our basic relation to the land 
_ will continue to be agricultural. And if we are ever to have 
a decent relation to our land, we will probably have to begin 
by converting from agricultural methods that are exploitive 
and wasteful to methods that are preserving. For this we will 
_ 
need more than the scientific expertise that we have relied on 
so far; we will need models, 
_ A great deal in the way of models and examples is to be 
learned from the American Indians, for their relation to this 
_ part of the earth seems to me to have been exemplary. Our 
assumption that we could learn to live here, ignoring their 
example, is a cultural disaster as well as an ecological one. 
_ But we have a great deal to learn from all truly indigenous 
_ peoples. The agricultural practices of primitives and peasants 
_ ought to be particularly instructive to us, for these people 
have farmed the land with a sense of profound unity with it; 
_ 
their ways, formed slowly over generations out of an intri- 
_ cate knowledge of the land and its needs, have tended to 
preserve it. 
One of the richest sources of information about peasant 
agriculture is a book called Farmers of Forty Centuries by 
_an American professor of agriculture, F. H. King. In 1907 
_ King traveled in Japan, Korea and China, looking closely at 
the local practices of agriculture and land management 
everywhere he went. He talked with experts and with 
_ peasants, He was full of interest in the knowledge and the 
life of farming. His book is loaded with details of the life of 
| 
the people, observed sharply, and put down with delight and 
_ sympathy. 
be based on methods of land use. No matter how ‘sophisticated’ 
The question that King bore in mind throughout his travels 
was how these people had preserved their land, which after 
thousands of years of intensive use was as fertile as ever. 
The 
answer involved a complexity of methods and practices and 
traditions, but what it amounted to was that the taking of 
produce from the land was always balanced by a return of 
organic matter. 
The sewage of towns and cities, instead of 
being flushed out to pollute the waterways as with us, was 
brought bagk to the fields; the mud dredged from the canals 
was carried to the fields; no organic waste of any kind was 
ever thrown away, but always worked back into the soil. 
How to Have a Green Thumb 
Without an Aching Back 
A classic in organic gardening. Now in her 80’s, 
Ruth Stout is still telling gardeners how to take it 
easy; mainly by using her home-devised mulching 
system, which is purported to eliminate composting, 
weeding, watering, tilling, digging, and worrying. 
Briefly, it amounts to covering ground around 
vegetables with about 8” of organic matter (such as 
hay), which keeps weeds down, moisture in, ground 
soft, and worms working. 
How to Have a Green Thumb 
Without an Aching Back 
Ruth Stout 
1955; 160 pp. (dk. green text) 
$1 45 postpaid 
from 
Cornerstone Library Publications 
Simon & Schuster Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, New York 
10020 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
King has a lot to say about the methods of composting, 
intertillage, crop rotation, irrigation, green manuring, and so 
on. He has a scientist’s respect for statistics and he supplies 
plenty of them. But he also gives ihe sort of lively informa- 
tion that he could only have got by talking, by ‘passing the 
time of day,’ with the people he met in the fields. He writes 
of practices, tools, materials, dimensions. 
His book is the 
best sort of manual; it is one of the pioneer books on organic 
Wi t 
hae ee t 
farming. And for the same reasons it is the best sort of travel 
; 
Aching Ba 
book; he talks occasionally about how the plants are cared 
for around some temple or shrine, but for the most part 
avoids ‘tourist attractions,’ the life of the ordinary people, 
its sources and ways, was what fascinated him. There are 
more than two hundred photographs, not the work of a gifted 
photographer certainly, but informative and useful. 
This is a book that can suggest things for you to do, if you 
have a piece of ground to do them on. Whether or not you 
have a piece of ground, it is a book that can change your mind. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Wendell Berry.] 
Popular Garden (Model H) $8.95 
Colorful, economical Kit for the small gar- 
.den. Makes 50 individual tests for nitrogen, 
phosphorus, potash and acidity. Cased. with 
attractive transparent plastic box. Helpful 
charts show needs of fawn 
grasses, 75 
flowers, 50 vegetables. 
Horticultural (Model B) $20.95 
An exact duplicate in small size of the $39.95 
DELUXE model. Full instructions and charts giv- 
ing soil preference of 225 flowers, vegetables, 
etc. Sturdy steel case with carrying handle for 
on the spot tests. An excellent Kit for the more 
serious back yard gardener. 
Soil Test Kit 
A soil test kit enables you to test your garden soil for acidity/ 
alkalinity, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potash. A test will show 
what is present and what is lacking. 
There are test tubes, 
chemicals, and a color chart to gauge results. Be sure to ask 
for ‘The Organic Supplement’ prepared by Organic Gardening 
magazine in case “...you have decided to work with Nature’s 
own methods of fertilization.’ Feed the soil, not the plant. 
If the soil is too acid, it may be brought back to a favorable pH 
(acidity-alkalinity balance) by addition of ground limestone or dolo- 
mite.... Soils which are too alkaline can be corrected with organic 
matter, which produces natural acids directly as it decays. 
| Nitrogen is responsible for producing leaf growth and greener leaves 
....One of the easiest and most effective ways of adding nitrogen and 
| building soil fertility is growing and turning under foliage crops such 
as clover, vetch, alfalfa, etc. 
Phosphorous...is important for a strong root system, for brighter 
flowers and good growth....You can best add phosphorous to your 
' soil with finely ground rock phosphate. 
Sudbury Soil Test Kit 
| Potash, the third major nutrient carries carbohydrates through the 
Send fon dessein dye arevre.: Say Laboratory, 
Inc. 
| plant, helps form strong stems, and fights disease. Major natural 
Sudbury, Mass. 01 776 
sources of potash are fly ash, wood ashes, granite dust, seaweed, etc. 
kits: $5.95—39.95 
: 
: 
