Whole Systems 
Buckminster Fuller 
The insights of Buckminster Fuller initiated this Catalog. 
Among his books listed here, his most recent is probably the 
best introduction——it’s a succinct summary of what’s been 
on his mind for many a year and what’s on his mind now: 
how mankind may hatch and survive the hatching. An 
Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth. 
Of the other, larger, books, Nine Chains to the Moon is his 
earliest and most openly metaphysical, The Unfinished Epic 
of Industrialization the most beautiful, |deas and Integrities 
his most personal, No More Secondhand God the most 
generalized, World Design Science Decade (co-authored with 
John McHale) the most programmatic. 
r. buckminster fuller 
operating manual 
People who beef about Fuller mainly complain about his 
ot 
repetition — the same ideas again and again, it’s embarassing. 
!t is embarassing, also illuminating, because the same notions 
take on different uses when re-approached from different 
angles or with different contexts, Fuller’s lectures have a 
raga quality of rich nonlinear endless improvisation full of 
convergent surprises. 
Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth 
: 
5 
, 
nets 
Buckminster Fuller 
your head like suddenly discovering an extra engine in your 
1969; 143 pp. 
car — if you don’t Jet it drive you faster, itll drag you. 
Fuller won’t wait. He spent two years silent after illusor’ 
$4.25 postpaid 
from Southern IIlinois University Press 
Some are put off by his language, which makes demands on 
language got him in trouble, and he returned to humar: 
B00 West Grand 
communication with a redesigned instrument. 
| see God in 
the instruments and the mechanisms that 
work 
reliably, 
more reliably than the limited sensory departments of 
the human mechanism. 
And God says 
observe the paradox 
of man’s creative potentials 
and his destructive tactics. 
He could have his new world 
through sufficient love 
for ‘‘all’s fair” 
in Jove as well as in war 
which means you. can 
junk as much rubbish, 
skip as many stupid agreements 
by love, 
spontaneous unselfishness radiant. 
The revoiution nas come— 
set on fire from the top. 
Let it bum swiftly. 
Neither the branches, trunk, nor roots will be endangered. 
Only last year’s leaves and 
the parasite-bearded moss and orchids 
will not be there 
when the next spring brings fresh growth 
and free standing flowers. 
Here is God’s purpose— 
for God, to me, it seems, 
isaverb 
not a noun, 
proper or improper; 
is the articulation 
not the art, objective or subjective; 
is loving, 
not the abstraction “‘love’’ commanded or entreated; 
is knowledge dynamic, 
not legislative code, 
not proclamation law. 
not academic dogma, not ecclesiastic canon. 
Yes, God is a verb, 
the most active, 
connoting the vast harmonic 
reordering of the universe 
from unleashed chaos of energy. 
And there is bom unheralded 
a great natural peace, 
not out of exclusive 
pseudo-static security 
but out of including, refining, dynamic balancing. 
Naught is lost. 
Only the false and nonexistent are dispelled. 
And I’ve thought through to tomorrow 
which is also today. 
The telephone rings 
and you say to me 
Hello Buckling this is Christopher; or 
Daddy it’s Allegra; or 
Mr. Fuller this is the Telephone Company Business Office; 
and | say you are inaccurate. 
Because | knew you were going to call 
and furthermore | recognize 
that it is God who is ‘‘speaking."’ 
And you say 
aren’t you being fantastic? 
And knowing you | say no. 
All organized religions of the past 
Carbondale, Illinois 62903 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
To comprehend this total scheme we note that long ago a man went 
through the woods, as you may have done, and | certainly have, trying 
to find the shortest way through the woods in a given direction. He 
found trees fallen across his path. He climbed over those crisscrossed 
trees and suddenly found himself poised on a tree that was slowly 
teetering. 
It happened to be lying across another great tree, and the 
other end of the tree on which he found himself teetering lay under a 
third great fallen tree. As he teetered he saw the third big tree lifting. 
It seemed impossible to him. He went over and tried using his own 
muscles to lift that great tree. He couldn't budge it. Then he climbed 
back atop the first smaller tree, purposefully teetering it, and surely 
enough it again elevated the larger tree. |’m certain that the first man 
who found such a tree thought that it was a magic tree, and may have 
dragged it home and erected it as man’s first totem. 
It was probably 
a long time before he learned that any stout tree would do, and thus 
extracted the concept of the generalized principle of leverage out of 
all his earlier successive special-case experiences with such accidental 
discoveries. 
To begin our position-fixing aboard our Spaceship Earth we must 
first acknowledge that the abundance of immediately consumable, 
Obviously desirable or utterly essential resources have been 
sufficient until now to allow us to carry on despite our ignorance. 
Being eventually exhaustible and spoilable, they have been adequate 
Only up to this critical moment. 
This cushion-for-error of 
humanity’s survival and growth up to now was apparently provided 
just as a bird inside of the egg is provided with liquid nutriment to 
develop it to acertain point. But then by design the nutriment is 
exhausted at just the time when the chick is large enough to be able 
to locomote on its own legs. And so as the chick pecks at the shell 
seeking more nutriment it inadvertently breaks open the shell. 
Stepping forth from its initial sanctuary, the young bird must now 
forage on its own legs and wings to discover the next phase of its 
regenerative sustenance. 
A new, physically uncomprised, metaphysical 
initiative of unbiased integrity could unify the 
world. 
It could and probably will be provided by 
the utterly impersonal problem solutions of the 
computers. 
Heisenberg’s principle of ‘indeterminism’ which 
recognized the experimental discovery that the act 
of measuring always alters that which was being 
measured turns experience into a continuous and 
never-repeatable evolutionary scenario. 
@ 
The gold supply is so negligible as to make it pure 
voodoo to attempt to valve the world’s economic 
evolution traffic through the gold-sized needle’s 
‘eye.’ 
e 
Brain deals exclusively with the physical, and mind 
exclusively with the metaphysical. Wealth is the 
progressive mastery of matter by mind.... 
Possession is becoming progressively burdensome 
and wasteful and therefore obsolete. 
a 
WY 
You and | are inherently different and complementary. 
s\\ 
= 
Together we average as zero——that is, as eternity. 
@ [Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth] 
Ideas and Integrities 
No More Secondhand God 
Buckminster Fuller 
Buckminster Fuller 
1963; 318 pp 
1963; 163 pp. 
$1.95 postpaid 
$2.25 postpaid 
from 
from 
Collier Books 
Southern Illinois University Press 
The Macmillan Company 
600 West Grand 
Order Dept. 
Carbondale, Illinois 62903 
Front and Brown Streets 
or 
Riverside, N. J. 08075 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Standing by the lake on a jump-or-think basis, the very first spontan- 
eous question coming to mind was, *‘If you put aside everything 
you've ever been asked to believe and have recourse only to your own 
experiences do you have any conviction arising from those experiences 
which either discards or must assume an a priori greater intellect than 
the intellect of man?’’ The answer was swift and positive. Experience 
had clearly demonstrated an a priori_anticipatory and only intellect- 
ually apprehendable orderliness of interactive principles operating in 
the universe into which we are born. These principles are discovered 
but are never invented by man. 
| said to myself, ‘’| have faith in the 
integrity of the anticipatory intellectual wisdom which we may call 
‘God.’ ’’ My next question was, ’’Do | know best or does God know 
best whether | may be of any value to the integrity of universe?” 
The answer was, ‘’You don’t know and no man knows, but the 
faith you have just established out of experience imposes recognition 
of the a priori wisdom of the fact of your being.’ Apparently addres- 
sing myself, | said, ‘’You do not have the right to eliminate yourself, 
you do not belong to you. You belong to the universe. The signi- 
ficance of you will forever remain obscure to you, but you may as 
sume that you are fulfilling your significance if you apply yourself 
to converting all your experience to highest advantage of others. 
You and all men are here for the sake of other men.”’ 
[Ideas and Integrities] 
| define ‘synergy’ as follows: Synergy is the unique behavior of 
whole systems, unpredicted by behavior fo their respective sub- 
systems’ events. 
[Ideas and Integrities] 
selfishness (self-preoccupation pursued until self loses its way and 
self-generates fear and spontaneous random surging, i.e. panic, the 
plural of which is mob outburst in unpremeditated wave synchron- 
ization of the individually random components) 
{No More Secondhand God] 
Thinking is a putting-aside, rather than a putting-in discipline, e.g., 
putting aside the tall 
grasses in order to isolate the trail into infor- 
mative viewability. Thinking is FM—frequency modulation—for 
it results in tuning-out of irrelevancies as a result of definitive 
resolution of the exclusively tuned-in or accepted feed-back 
messages’ pattern differentiatability. 
[Omnidirectional Halo’’ No More Secondhand God] 
cK 
4 x 
nae 
were inherently developed 
as beliefs and credits 
in “‘second hand” information. 
Therefore it will be an entirely new era 
when man finds himself confronted 
with direct experience 
with an obviously a priori 
intellectually anticipatory competence 
that has interordered 
all that he is discovering. 
This captain has not only an infinite self-:Uentity characteristic but, 
also, an infinite understanding, He has furthermore, infinite sym- 
pathy with all captains of mechanisms similar te his. 
Common to all such ‘human’ mechanisms—and without which they 
are imbecile contraptions—is their guidance by a phantom captain. 
This phantom captain has neither weight nor sensorial tangibility, as 
has often been scientifically proven by careful weighing operations 
at the moment of abandonment of the ship by the phantom captain, 
i.e., at the instant of “death.” He may be likened to the variant of 
polarity dominance in our bipolar electric world which, when bal- 
anced and unit, vanishes as abstract unity | or O. With the phantom 
captain's departure, the mechanism becomes inoperative and very 
quickly disintegrates into basic chemical elements. 
continued 
An illuminating rationalization indicated that_captains —being 
phantom, abstract, infinite, and bound to other captains by a bond 
of ‘understanding as proven by their recognition of eachother’s sig- 
nals and the meaning thereof by reference to a common direction 
(toward “‘perfect’’)—are not only all related, but are one and the 
same captain. Mathematically, since charactistics of unity exist, 
[No More Secondhand God) 
they cannot be non-identical. 
[Nine Chains to the Moon] 
