Man’s Role in Changing the Face of the Earth 
This book of almost 1200 pages is the result of a major con- 
ference held in 1955, sponsored by the Wenner Gren Foun- 
dation for Anthropological Research. More than 50 scholars 
submitted papers, covering almost every imaginable point of 
view related to man’s capacity to transform his physical 
environment. 
Though first presented nearly 15 years ago, 
the facts and insights are richly rewarding today. In my 
opinion in fact, it is an unsurpassed achievement in assembling 
pertinent, insightful information of interest not only to serious 
students of the planet Earth, but to non-trained readers as well. 
The three sections of the book are: |.“‘Retrospect”, an histor- 
ical background; I. “Process”, methods and agencies involved 
in man’‘s interactions with the land, and III. “Prospect”, the 
effects and future implications of man’s habitation of the 
Earth. Some typical subjects covered within these sections 
include; 
fire as the great force employed by man; origins 
and decline of woodlands; man and grass (sic); ecology of 
peasant life; harvests of the seas; ports channels and coast- 
lines; and sewerage (don’t belittle sewerage—society is struc- 
tured around it). 
w= 
Tower oF PHAROS 
Cause way 
Zunosrus' 
HArRso0R 
ne 
Timonium 
Outline of shoal 
| 
== Known wall or mole 
1 == Problematical 
wall 
—S 
Fic, 106.—Harbor at Alexandria, Egypt, about the beginning of the Christian Era. 
This book rewards a reader like me because of its minimum 
of moralizing and its abundant substance. 
Edgar Anderson, 
director of the Mrssouri Botanical Garden in St Louis and 
without whom such a book as this would be certainly incom- 
plete, pointed out that the average thoughtful person has 
little inkling of how man has reclothed the world. Even 
professional biologists have been tardy in recognizing that 
a significant portion of the plants and animals surrounding 
us are of our own making. For example, neither Kentucky 
bluegrass nor Canada bluegrass is native to those places, but 
came from Europe. 
The corn belt is a very obviously man- 
dominated landscape, but the casual observer might never 
realize that even the grass covered and oak-dotted sirétches 
of what looks like indiginous California vegetation came 
uninvited from the Old World along with the Spaniards. 
[Reviewed by Richard Raymond] 
Two Mushroom Books 
= 
Finding a strange, slimy, luminous colored growth on dark 
rotting wood Is surprise and pleasure; to extend that exper- 
ience into identifying it and possibly EATING 
it is even 
better. For the beginner one batch of mushrooms can 
occupy a whole day, from finding them, through waiting 
for a good spore deposit and making a decision, to cook- 
ing them. An efficient guidebook is essential to avoid 
frustrations. 
The Mushroo 
from: 
Margaret McKenny 
1962; 133 pp. 
$3.95 
postpaid 
from: 
On a tramp through the fields and forests, carry with you a small jar 
of butter, creamed with salt and pepper. On finding any edible mush- 
room (except morels or elfinsaddles), collect a few dry sticks and fire 
them. Split a green stick (alder or willow) at one end. Put the mush- 
room in the cleft, hold it over the fire until tender, season 
butter. Eat from the stick. 
from *“’The Savory Wild Mushroom” 
Alexander H. Smith 
1958; 1967; 264 pp. 
$6.95 
postpaid 
University of Michigan Press 
615 East University 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG? 
The Savory Wild Mushroom 
University of Washington Press 
Seattle, Washington 98105 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Generally speaking, the plants which follow man around the world 
, 
might be said to do so, not because they relish what man has done / 
to the environment, but because they can stand it and most other 
plants cannot 
{sess 
¥ 
. 
a) 
¥ 
¥ 
!. fulva 
ih CJ 
ENS 
iy 
|, hexagona 
: 
giganti-caerulea|'); 
° 
—~—v 
Fic. 153.—A demonstration of man’s unconscious role in creating new plants, (From Riley, 
1938.) At the far right one of the minor bayous of the lower Mississippi Delta. At right angles 
to it and running nearly across the figure is the abandoned channel of a former stream, now 
drained by a ditch. The natural levees of the stream are slightly higher than the surrounding 
ir sharp inner edges are indicated on the map by hachures. The road has been run 
along the lower levee, and houses have been built Sons he 
opposite one. The 
lines 
(as in many old French settlements) produce a series of 
long narrow farms, which 
for our 
pur- 
poses serve as so many experimental plots. Each farm has its house on a low ridge with a long 
entrance drive connecting it across a swale to the public road on the 
ite ridge. The farms 
(including 
a score of others which are out of sight to the left of the figure) were originally essen- 
tially similar, At the point where the ditch joins the bayou is a large 
population of Iris hexagona 
giganti-caerulea, Behind the levee on which the houses were built, Phatea grows on the lower 
ground as well as farther upstream along the ditch. The key fact to be noted is that the hybrids 
are on only one farm, that they are abundant there, and that they go up to the very 
lers of 
the property on either side. Nature is evidently capable of spawning such hybrids throughout 
this Area, but not until one farmer unconsciously created the new and more or less open habitat 
in which they could survive did any appear in this part of the delta. (See Anderson, 1949, pp. 
1-11, 94-98, for a more complete discussign,)_ 
5 
country, 
2 
ees 
IN CHANGING THE FACE 
OF THE EARTH 
$15.00 
from: 
cme 
wget 
ae 
The McKenny book is compact, but not especially well 
organized for use. 
[t contains clear and concise descriptions 
of 83 varieties of fungi, some of them peculiar to the Puget 
Sound region, the rest common throughout the 'J.S., and 
33 black-and-white and 48 color photographs. 
There is also 
an article on mushroom poisons and the many fine recipes 
make one want to rush to the woods and immediately gather 
baskets of Chanterelles, Morels and Ceps. Not so easy! 
Smith’s book, which | prefer, is more technical in language 
and scope, although, as a field guide, it avoids identification 
methods involving microscopes and chemicals. 
It is much 
more complete, covering 188 varieties with a black-and- 
white photo of each plus 84 color photos, and it is organ- 
ized in keys which are super to use if you like being metho- 
dical. It is not necessarily true, however, that it is quicker 
to follow the system: in thumbing through either book, as 
in wandering in the woods, luck and perseverance further. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Sandra Tcherepnin] 
m Hunter's Field Guide. 
REVISED AND 
ENLARGED 
RGR 
4 QUART NN NY 
with the 
\ Man’s Role in Changing 
the Face of the Earth 
William L. 
1956; 1193 pp. 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley Ave. 
Chicago, Illinois 60628 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
THE SociaL REVOLUTION 
Courtesy of Keren Hayesod Tesusalem 
Almost every change in environmental conditions which man can 
make results in some change in the water economy or water budget 
at the earth’s surface. 
The pressure for beef supply from the grasslands is very rapidly 
— 
depigting the potential for protein. Where the plow went ahead 
of the cow, we have been able to measure the reduction in soil 
capabilities. The protein content of the wheat now grown on the 
eastern edge of the grassland area has been dropping decidedly. 
Where once it ranged from 19 to 11 per cent, it is now 14—9 per — 
cent. 
‘ 
These are all very good ideas, but I’ ve got something else that is very 
much more important. Every time you get where there is one of 
these populations of plants, find a large, flat rock, in the shade if 
necessary; sit down upon it for at least fifteen minutes by your wrist 
— 
watch; and do not try to think about your clematises. Just think what 
a nice day it is, how pretty the flowers are, and the blue sky. Think 
how lucky you are to be doing this kind of work when the rest of the 
world is doing all the awful things they do not want to do. Just let 
your mind alone. Now, | am not joking. Please do this, by the clock 
— 
if necessary. 
Thomas, ed. 
postpaid 
(a) 
Q 
ida i 
Tee 
eee 
28 
(a 
eee ee eae) 
1950 
a 
Fic, 147.—Changes in wooded area of Cadiz Township, Green County, Wisconsin (89°S4’ W., 
43°30" N, ), during the period of European settlement, The township is six miles on a side and ik 
drained by the Pecatonica River. The shaded areas represent the land remaining in, or reverting 
- 
to, forest in 1882, 1902, and 1950. 
as 
= 
aod a 
— 
ee ee 
_ 164, COPRINUS ATRAMENTARIUS (Inky Cap) 
Edibility. Edible, but some people experience a peculiar type of 
intoxication from eating this species and afterward drinking an alco- 
holic beverage. | have now discovered three people in Michigan with 
this type of sensitivity. 
from ‘’fhe Mushroom Hunter’s Field Guide” 
KEYS TO FAMILIES 
1. Gills turning black and “melting” at maturity 
Coprinus, in the family Coprinaceae 
. Gills not liquefying at maturity 
2. Gills free from the stalk 
2. Gills attached to the stalk 
. Spore deposit chocolate brown to blackish 
gills the same color; ring present on stalk 
FRR 
CI erat ANE ita) cag ne AE The Agaricaceae 
. Spore deposit and mature gills paler 
4. Spore deposit pink to vinaceous or reddish; mature 
gills about the same color 
The Volvariaceae (Pluteus magnus) 
4. Spore deposit white (greenish in one) 
Volva present around base of stalk or remains of outer 
veil present on the Cap ....2....cceccee The Amanitaceae 
. Volva absent; inner veil present; cap if scaly with the 
scales ingrown and usually of appressed hairs (fibril- 
lose ) 
Chlorophyllum and Leucoagaricus 
6. Spore deposit ‘white ic pale lilac, yellow, or pinkish 
buff 
and mature 
4rom The Mushroom Hunter's Field Giada 
