ns, subjective exploration of any kind, this is a useful 
9k. John Lilly borrowed our review copy and returned it 
A Special Inquiry with Aldous Huxley into the Nature 
_ and Character of Various States of Consciousness 
Milton H. Erickson 
Toward the Experimental Control of Dreaming 
Charles Tart 
; 
A Study of Dreams 
5 
Frederik van Eeden 
‘The ‘High’ Dream 
er 
Charles Tart 
Mutual Hypnosis 
Charles Tart 
The Effects of Marijuana on Consciousness 
~ 
Anonymous 
‘Subjective Effects of Nitrous Oxide 
William James 
_ Attitude and Behavior Change Through Psychedelic 
_ 
Drug Use 
Joseph Downing 
Psychedelic Agents in Creative Problem Solving 
Harman, McKim,. 
Mogar, Fadiman, 
Stoleroff. 
‘Guide to the Literature on Psychedelic Drugs 
354 
Charles Tart 
_ 
An Electroencephalographic Study on The Zen 
_ Meditation 
Kasamatsu, Hirai 
: Reicront Control of the EEG Alpha Rhythm and 
Some of its Reported Effects on Consciousness 
Joe Kamiya 
s Energy. 
eaence, “Wherever you are, whatever you are doing, listen 
ly to what is being said, and slowly, gradually, comfortably 
act | upon it. Feel rested and comfortable, feel a need to 
in increasing contact with my voice, with me, with the 
‘Tepresent, a need of returning to matters in hand with me 
long-ago, in the not so long ago belonging to me, and leave 
nd but AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST practically everything of 
ince, KNOWING BUT NOT KNOWING that it is AVAILABLE 
REQUEST. And now, let us see, that’s right, you are sitting 
2, Wi e awake, ested, comfortable, and ready for discussion of 
t little there i is.’ 
e Wi itched, he became annoyed with me since | was apparently 
g to talk to him, and he experienced a wave of impatience and 
that | be silent. He turned back and noted that the infant 
laying, talking. In utter fascination he watched this grow- 
poused its subjective experiences of learning, of wanting, of 
] npzthized with it, rejoiced with it, thought ‘and wondered 
d learned with it. He felt as one with it, as if it were he himself 
see what the young man was looking at, and suddenly 
that the young man was Aldous Huxley himself, and that this 
Huxley was looking at another Aldous Huxley, obviously 
early fifties, just across the vestibule in which they both were 
in ; and that he aged 52, was looking at himself, Aldous, aged 
e of the question in the other’s mind. Each found the question 
(traordinarily fascinating interest’’ and each tried to determine 
) 
was the “actual reality’’ and which was the “mere subjective 
ence outwardly projected in hallucinatory form.” 
Eriseen flying in my dreams for two or three nights, then | 
ed and accompanied all the time by the sensation of flying. 
nes | feel myself floating swiftly through wide spaces; once | 
kwards, and once, dreaming that | was inside a cathedral, | 
pwards, with the immense building and all in it, at great speed. 
ere in the CATALOG is a book called “Direct Use of the 
‘s Energy.” Tart’s book is moving toward Direct Use of the 
that a lucid dream is at hand. And the lucid dream itself is often 
When the expanded depth condition was imposed on the hypnotized 
subject, he became very happy.... 
* 
He became involved with the shapes of objects and the relation of 
objects to space. As he did this, he found himself becoming less self- 
concerned and more concerned with people and their relationsihips 
to one another. He became more alert, active and involved. He found 
that by concentrating on perspective and the relation of lines and 
sizes to one another, he was able to actually cnenge 
* the usual way he 
perceived depth. 
Induction of the no depth condition with the hypnotized subject pro- 
duced a sense that everything was flattened out which he attributed to 
excessive fatigue from the final exams which he had just completed. 
Colors, shapes, and sounds all seemed less intense. He reported a loss 
of sensitivity to touch. He became bored, withdrawn, and hostile. 
The fact that expanded depth is associated with mystic experience 
recalls the observation of William James (1902) that most.mystic 
experience tends to occur outdoors. The traditional predeliction of 
religious devotees for mountain tops and desert places may not be 
merely a desire to get away from the distractions of the social world, 
but a movement to a place where experiences of enhanced depth are 
possible. 
ALTERED STATES 
@F GONSCIOUSNESS 
A Book of Readings 
Edited by CHARLES T. TAR 
Altered States of Consciousness 
Charles Tart,ed. 
1969; 575 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, N. J. 08873 
Western Distribution Center 
1530 South Redwood Road 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The most coherent and articulate sentence which came was this: 
There are no differences but differences of degree between different 
degrees of difference and no difference. 
1. The first three to five hours are usually individual, to try to relax 
and let go. 
2. Spouses’ problems; usually we like spouses separate for first group 
treatments, 
If both are present, it is better if you start in different 
areas, but if you both want to be together, okay. 
3. Don’t be surprised at anything you may see the therapist doing— 
he knows what he is doing. 
4. A person who is having trouble breaking through needs something 
to resist against—the therapist may hand wrestle, or be on top and have 
three to six others on top as well. The person then can exert all his 
strength to break loose. 
5. Anytime you are in trouble, don’t hesitate to ask for help. 
6. As people make break-through you'll hear llaughing, crying, 
screaming. 
Don’t worry about it, or get concerned. 
7 Nothing is expected of you, don’t expect anything of yourself— 
most people have a glorious trip. 
8. ¥ry to avoid impressing anybody—you'll have a better trip. 
9. Around three to four hours after beginning, a stimutant will be 
brought around to keep your energy level up. 
10. Anytime you want to stop the trip, take some niacin, 500 to 
1000.mgm at a time. Niacin is good for bad re-entry, will make it 
easier. 
11. During the experience, if you want to come together, touch the 
other person or ask him. He may shake his head ‘no,’ or else turn and 
touch you. Don’t have hurt feelings, or guilt if they don’t want to 
be with you, be free to be yourselves. 
The change that then came over Bill was dramatic. He began 
‘ 
mumbling typical induction suggestions about relaxing, but over the 
course of a few minutes his voice became dramatic and forceful. He 
suggested that Anne see a diamond in her hand and concentrate on it 
and then almost immediately suggested that it would disappear and 
her mind would go blank. Then he very forcefully suggested physi- 
cal relaxation as he counted her into hypnosis: when he reached 20 
his whole manner changed and became relaxed and soothing. Anne 
reported a depth of 22. 
Bill then began talking about a ‘hallucinatory’ journey that he and 
Anne were on together. 
His voice was confident, smooth, relaxed, 
and completely convincing that he was describing actual events that 
were happening rather than anything ‘unreal.’ They were standing on 
a mountain slope, in front of the entrance to a tunnel. They walked 
hand-in-hand down this tunnel, with the explicit suggestion by Bill 
that they would be going deeper into hypnosis as they walked deeper 
into the dark tunnel. 
It was quiet in the tunnel, all outside noises had 
vanished, and an ineffable feeling of pleasantness and significance 
pervaded the tunnel. Anne reported a depth of 35 after a few minutes 
of this, and Bill continued describing their walk down the tunnel. 
The tunnel was absolutely real to Anne and Bill (and to Carol), as real 
as any experience in life. Although it was dark they could ‘see’ its 
— 
walls in a strange way: Anne said it felt as if she had a ‘light’ coming 
out from under her eyebrows, and “...it wasn’t illuminating anything — 
- 
| was seeing, yet it helped me to know that things were there without - 
seeing them.’’ Both Ss reported feeling the texture of the rock walls, 
which ranged from soft and slippery at places where it seemed moss- 
covered to quite hard where the bare rock was exposed. 
Anne and Carol were intensely curious as to what lay at the end of 
the tunnel, the end that Bill would not let them reach. This resulted 
in-an interesting aftermath. About a month after this session, Anne 
was a subject in a group hypnosis test. As she knew what the induc- 
tion procedure was, she decided to ‘go’ back to the tunnel and explore 
it as soon as she was hypnotized but before the suggestibility test 
items were administered. She found herself running along the tunnel, 
hurrying to reach the end before the test items. At the end of the 
tunnel she found a cave, blazing with brilliant white light, and occu- 
pied by an old man of angelic appearance. The room was filled with 
music from an unseen source. Anne repeatedly asked him what this 
experience meant: 
he ignored her at first, and finally told her, very 
sternly, that he could not answer her question because Bill was not 
with her. Anne then found herself back at the group hypnosis testing. 
| asked the Ss about their perceived bodies during the experience and 
found that they were curiously disembodied much of the time. They 
mentioned having heads or faces but no bodies at times, and Anne 
reported that they walked through each other sometimes. When Bill 
commanded Anne to give him her hand so he could lead her back, 
Anne reported that she had to “crawl back into my body, sort of. It 
was almost as if we were moving around with |just heads. When Bill 
said give him my hand, | had to kind of conjure up a hand.” 
It also came out in conversations some weeks later that this passing 
through each other was also accompanied by a sense of merging 
identities, of a partial blending of themselves quite beyond the degree 
of contact human beings expect to share with others. 
Anne and Bill read the transcripts over and were both shocked, They 
had been talking about their experiences to each other for some time, 
and found they had been discussing details of the experiences they had 
shared for which there were no verbal stimuli on the tapes, i.e, they 
felt they must have been communicating telepathically or that they 
had actually been ‘in’ the nonworldly locales they had experienced. 
This was frightening to both Ss, for what had seemed a lovely shared 
fantasy now threatened to be something real. 
