ry, and art. | take it to be one of the roots of learning, subject 
fications of method (on yourself or whomever). 
ans beyond the work of others that he’s generalized from. 
This 
book that gave him the reputation. 
. two ways of escaping our more or less automized routines of thinking 
faving. The first, of course, is the plunge into dreaming or dream-like 
when the codes of rational thinking are suspended. The other way is 
an escape—from boredom, stagnation, intellectual predicaments, and emo- 
ional frustration—but an escape in the opposite direction; it is signaled by the 
spontaneous flash of insight which shows a familiar situation or event in a new 
t, and elicits a new response to it. The bisociative act connects previously 
Innected matrices of experience; it makes us ‘understand what it is to be 
‘e, to be living on several planes at Once’ (to quote T.S. Eliot, somewhat 
context)._ 
rst way of escape is a regression to earlier, more primitive levels of ideation, 
lified in the language of the dream; the second an ascent to a new, more 
lex level of mental evolution. Though seemingly opposed, the two pro- 
ill turn out to be intimatelv related. 
yO independent mairices of perception or reasoning interact with each 
e result(as | hope to show) is either a collision ending in laughter, or 
ion in a new intellectual synthesis, or their confrontation in an aesthetic 
erience. The bisociative patterns found in any domain of creative activity 
ri-valent: that is to say, the same pair of matrices can produce comic, tragic, 
intellectuallv challenging effects. 
a 
THE ACT OF CREATION 
by Arthur Koestler 
structuring of mental organization effected by the new discovery implies 
‘the creative act has a revolutionary or destructive side. The path of history 
wn with its victims: the discarded isms of art, the epicycles and phlogistons 
cience. 
jative skills, on the other hand, even of the sophisticated kind which re- 
a high degree of concentration, do not display the above features. Their 
ogical equivalents are the activities of the organism while in a state of dy- 
ic equilibrium with the environment—as distinct from the more spectac- 
manifestations of its regenerative potentials. The skills of reasoning rely 
jabit, governed by well-established rules of the game; the ‘reasonable 
—used as a standard norm in English common law—is level-headed in- 
d of multi-level-headed; adaptive and not destructive; an enlightened conser- 
e, 
not a revolutionary; willing to learn under proper guidance, but unable 
e 
guided by his dreams. 
Main distinguishing features of associative and bisociative thought may 
/be summed up, somewhat brutally, as follows: 
The Act of Creation 
, 
Habit 
Originality 
Arthur Koestler 
ssociation within the confines 
Bisociation of independent matrices 
1964; 750 pp. 
given matrix 
lance by pre-conscious or 
Guidance by sub-conscious processes 
$1.25 postpaid 
a-conscious processes 
normally under restraint 
f 
rom: 
namic equilibrium 
Rigid 
to flexible variations on 
Activation of regenerative potentials 
Super-flexibility (reculer pour mieux 
sauter) 
Novelty 
Destructive-Constructive 
750 Third Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
33. Tun / Retreat 
Dell Publishing Company, Inc. 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
I have coined the term ‘bisociation’ in order to make a distinction 
between the routine skills of thinking on a single ‘plane’, as it were, 
2 
and the creative act, which, as I shall try to show, always operates on 
more than one plane. The former may be called single-minded, the latter a 
double-minded, transitory state of unstable equilibrium where the balance of 
both emotion and ‘thought is disturbed. 
Everybody can ride a bicycle, but nobody knows how it is done. Not even engi- 
neers and bicycle manufacturers know the formula for the correct method of 
counteracting the tendency to fall by turning the handlebars so that ‘for a given 
angle of unbalance the curvature of each winding is inversely proportional to the 
sauare of the speed at which the cyclist is proceeding’. The cyclist obeys a code 
of rules which is specifiable, but which he cannot specify; he could write on his 
number-plate Pascal's motto: ‘Le cceur a ses raisons que la raison ne connait 
point.’ Or, to put it in a more abstract way: 
The controls of a skilled activity generally function below the level of conscicus- 
ness on which that activity takes place. The code is a hidden persuader. 
This applies not only to our visceral activities and muscular skills, but also to the 
~ 
skill of perceiving the world around us in a coherent and meaningfal manner. 
Hold your left hand six inches, the other twelve inches, away from your eyes; 
they will look about the same size, although the retinal image of the left is 
twice the size of the right. Trace the contours of your face with a soapy finger 
on the bathroom mirror (it is easily done by closing one eye). There is a shock 
waiting: the image which looked life-size has shrunk to half-size. like a head- 
hunter$S trophy. A person walking away does not seem to become a dwarf—as 
he should; a black glove looks just as black in the sunlight as in shadow—though 
it should not; when a coin is held before the eyes im a tilted position its retinal 
projection will be a more or less flattened ellipse; yet we see it as a circle, because 
we know it to be a circle; and it takes some effort to see it actually as a squashed 
oval shape. Seeing is believing, as the saying goes, but the reverse is also true: 
knowing is seeing. ‘Even the most elementary perceptions,’ wrote Bartlett, ‘have 
the character of inferential constructions.’ 
But the inferential process, which 
controls perception, again works unconsciously. Seeing isa skill, part innate, 
part acquired in early infancy. The selective codes in this case operate on the 
input, not on the output. The stimuli impinging on the senses provide only the 
raw material of our conscious experience—the ‘booming, buzzing confusion’ of 
William James; before reaching awareness the input is filtered, processed, dis- 
torted, interpreted, and reorganized in a series of relay-stations at various levels 
of the nervous system; but the processing itself is not experienced by the person, 
and the rules of the game according to which the controls work are unknown 
to him. 
Ching, the Book of Changes, is a brilliant problem-solv- 
device. A problem (or ignorance) generally consists of 
}caught in local cyclic thinking. To consult the oracle, 
wisdom of chance (or synchronicity, no matter), is to step 
of the cycle of no-change and address a specific story on 
ture of change. You now have an alternative set of solu- 
hat owe nothing but proximity to your problem. You 
) associations, you find the way out, It’s prayer. 
n't think. of a more important and useful book than this 
“a It’s famously ancient, poetic, deep, esoteric, simple, 
ing. It has been the most influential book on Amer- 
rt and artists in the last 15 years. 
ple know about it. We've included it here to point 
new smaller (unabridged) cheaper Princeton University 
or ‘sion of the classic Wilhelm-Baynes Bollingen edition. 
acle 
method is still on page 721. 
Gna 
Gum above 
CH’IEN 
The Crazative, Heaven 
EAD 
Ga GH below 
KEN 
emer 
The power of the dark is ascending. The light retreats to security, so 
that the dark cannot encroach upon it. This retreat is a matter not of 
man’s will but of natural law. Therefore in this case withdrawal is 
proper;'it is the correct way to behave in order not to exhaust one’s 
forces. 
In the calendar this hexagram is linked with the sixth month (July- 
August), in which the forces of winter are already showing their 
influence. 
THE JUDGMENT 
RETREAT. Success. 
In what is small, perseverance furthers. 
Conditions are such that the hostile forces favored by the time are 
advancing. 
|n.this case retreat is the right course, and it is through 
retreat that success is achieved. But success consists in being able to 
carry out the retreat correctly. 
Retreat is not to be confused with 
flight. Flight means saving oneself under any circumstances, whereas 
retreat is a sign of strength. We must be careful not to miss the right 
Keeping Still, Mountain 
moment while we are in full possession of power and position. Then 
we shall be able to interpret the signs of the time before it is too late 
and to prepare for provisional retreat instead of being drawn into a 
desperate life-and-death struggle. Thus we do not simply abandon 
The | Ching 
the field to the opponent; we make it difficult for him to advance by 
showing perseverance in single acts of resistance. 
|n this way we 
prepare, while retreating, for the counter-movement. Understanding 
. 
Sy bape Ate Wilhelm, Cary F. Baynes 
the laws of a constructive retreat of this sort is not easy. The meaning 
that lies hidden in such a time is important. 
$6.00 postpaid 
THE IMAGE 
from: 
Mountain under heaven: 
the image of RETREAT. 
Princeton University Press 
Thus the superior man keeps the inferior man at a 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
5 
or 
cheagbiel 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Not angrily but with reserve. 
The mountain rises up under heaven, but owing to its nature it finally 
af 
4 
comes to a stop. Heaven on the other hand retreats upward before it 
$5.25 postpaid 
into the distance and remains out of reach. This symbolizes the be- 
havior of the superior man toward a climbing inferior; he retreats into 
from 
his own thoughts as the inferior man comes forward. He does not 
Shambala Booksellers 
hate him, for hatred is a form of subjective involvement by which we 
2482 Telegraph 
are bound to the hated object. The superior man shows strength 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
(heaven) in that he brings the inferior man to a standstill (mountain) 
by his dignified reserve. 
