x 
The Natural Way to Draw 
Drawing is a deeper and wider kind of writing. 
It’s 
better communication in many ways than writing, 
and it’s much closer to your mind. (The same goes 
for music and speech). 
This classic work by an outstanding art teacher is 
not only the best how-to book on drawing, it is the 
best how-to book we’ve seen on any subject. 
[Suggested by Roy Sebern] 
=~ 
The job of the teacher, as! see it, is to teach students, not 
how to draw, but how to learn to draw. 
You SROULD DRAW, NOT WHAT THE THING LOOKS LIKE, NOT EVEN WHAT 
IT 18, BUT. WHAT IT 18 DOING. Feel how the figure lifts or droops — pushes 
forward here — pulls back there — pushes out here 
— drops down easily 
there. Suppose that the model takes the pose of a fighter with fists clenched 
and jaw thrust forward angrily. Try to draw the actual thrust of the jaw, 
the clenching of the hand. A drawing of prize fighters should show the 
push, from foot to fist, behind their blows that makes them hurt. 
In contour drawing you touch the edge of the 
form. 
In gesture drawing you feel the movement of 
the whole. 
THE SOONER YOU MAKE YOUR FIRST FIVE THOUSAND 
MISTAKES, THE SOONER YOU WILL BE ABLE TO CORRECT 
THEM. 
Communications 
The first exercise, which you are about to attempt, is planned 
consciously to bring into play your sense of touch and to 
coordinate it with your sense of sight for the purpose of 
drawing. 
Look at the edge of your chair. Then rub your finger against 
it many times, sometimes slowly and sometimes quickly. 
Compare the idea of the edge which the touch of your finger 
gives with the idea you had from merely looking at it. In 
this exercise you will try to combine both those experiences 
—that of'touching with that of simply looking. 
Kimon Nicolaides 
1941; 221 pp. 
$6.00 postpaid 
from: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 
Wayside Road 
Exercise 1: Contour Drawing 
Materials: Use a 3B (medium soft) drawing pencil 
with a very fine point (sharpened on sandpaper) and 
a piece of cream-colored manila wrapping paper about 
fifteen by twenty inches in size. Manila paper usually 
comes in large sheets which may be cut into four pieces 
of that size. You may use, also, the kind sold as 
“shelf paper’ provided it is not glazed. Fasten the paper 
with large paper clips to a piece of prestwood or a stiff 
piece of cardboard. Wear an eyeshade. Do not use an 
eraser until you come to Exercise 28. 
Sit close to the model or object which you intend to draw and 
lean forward in your chair. Focus your eyes on some point— 
any point will do—along the contour of the model. (The 
contour approximates what is usually spoken of as the outline 
or edge.) Place the point of your pencil on the paper. Imagine 
that your pencil point is touching the model instead of the 
paper. Without taking your eyes off the model, wait until you 
are convinced that the pencil is touching that point on the 
model upon which your eyes are fastened. 
Then move your eye slowly along the contour of the model and 
move the pencil slowly along the paper. As you do this, keep 
the conviction that the pencil point is actually touching the 
contour. Be guided more by the sense of touch than by sight. 
THIS MEANS THAT YOU MUST DRAW WITHOUT LOOK- 
ING AT THE PAPER, continuously looking at the model. 
Exactly coordinate the pencil with the eye. Your eye may 
be tempted at first to move faster than your pencil, but do 
not let it get ahead. Consider only the point that you are 
working on at the moment with no regard for any other 
part of the figure. 
The Natural Way to Draw 
Burlington, Mass. 01803 
f 
A gesture drawing is like scribbling rather 
thes lib ‘peiat 
— the 
@ the 
mooning then of 
the ony the 
thang looks. 
TWO TYPES OF STUDY. The way to learn to draw is by 
drawing. People who make art must not merely know about 
it. For an artist, the important thing is not how much he 
knows, but how much he can do. A scientist may know all 
about aeronautics without being able to handle an airplane. 
It is only by flying that he can develop the senses for flying. 
If | were asked what one thing more than any other would 
teach a student how to draw, | should answer, “Drawing— 
incessantly, furiously, painstakingly drawing.” 
Probably you realize already that contour drawing is of the 
type which is to be done “painstakingly.” On the other 
hand, gesture drawing, which you will begin today, is to be 
done “furiously.”” In order to concentrate, one can act 
furiously over a short space of time or one can work with 
calm determination, quietly, over a long-extended period. 
In learning to draw, both kinds of effort are necessary and 
the one makes a precise balance for the other. In long studies 
you will develop an understanding of the structure of the 
model, how it is made—by which | mean something more 
fundamental than anatomy alone. In quick studies you will 
consider the function of action, life, or expression—I call 
it gesture. 
e 
Some students become self-conscious and confused as soon as 
they attempt to draw a face. Don’t think of the head or the 
face as something different from any other part of the body. 
Draw it as you would draw a hand or an elbow or a knee. 
Don’t try to ‘“get a likeness’’ of your model. The tendency 
of the beginner is to separate likenesses from drawing. Draw 
strangers if you can because you care less what they look 
like. Do not draw members of your family—or at least do 
not show them your drawings—because their one reaction 
will be to look for the likeness. Keep it clearly in mind 
* 
that YOU ARE NOT MAKING A PORTRAIT. You are 
making a study of a head. 
a ae 
CHANGING THE POINT OF VIEW. It is well known that the 
printed or spoken word has a tendency to take on authority 
once it is printed or spoken. To get away from it almost 
takes a revolution. The same thing is true with your own 
drawing. The very mistakes you make, as they linger on 
the paper, have this tendency to become authoritative. To 
combat it, move about the room during the long pose, 
making occasional scribbled drawings. A thing is factually 
the same from whatever point of view you see it, but seeing 
it from different points of view will illuminate the meaning 
of the forms and lines you have been looking at. 
Whenever you are uncertain as to how to begin a study 
think of the movement. 
ae 
at
Al
Sip
ein
— 
* 
. 
Mapping 
A map is the meeting ground of drawing, writing, and 
geometry. No other medium carries such a wealth of 
critical information at glance readiness. Students of 
brain and thought design are lately placing more and 
more emphasis on the matter of Where-/s-/t—apparently 
much of the mind’s store, retrieve, and relate systems 
are based on position relationships in mental space. 
This book is a well-made introduction to map use, 
map construction, and something of the meaning 
of maps. 
A 
We can scan the history of civilization as well as of mapping 
itself simply by observing which direction has topped the map. 
Erwin Raisz, the Harvard authority on cartography, says, “It 
seems to be a tendency among map makers of every country 
to put at the top of the map the direction toward which 
national attention is turned.” 
The Romans headed their maps as they so often did their 
empire-stretching ships, eastward. So did the Crusaders 
trying to recover the Holy Land. Many medieval wind roses 
have a cross as an east-mark. 
Maps and charts—you may have noticed in this chapter the 
repetition of these two words. What’s the difference in their 
meaning? Charts are maps with a special, practical purpose 
such as navigating, weather forecasting, and population 
studies. A chart is a map on which to work with protractor, 
compass, dividers, and guages—even a densitometer. 
7 
e 
This connection between local pinpoints and cosmic points 
is one of the majestic relationships recognized by science. 
Considering how much the mere idea of a map encompasses, 
maps are probably more unconfusing than anything else put 
down on paper. A map should be regarded as an antidote to 
panic, 
Land-form map. Accurate information shown with vividness and grace. Drawn by Erwin 
Rene! 
SSN) 
vigh mts, 
Hills 
Ress Loess 
2 
Raisz for a geography textbook ° 
Desert 
20°Miles 
11030 South Langley Ave 
Pen pressed against T square too hard 
Pen sloped away from see 
Pen too close to edge. Ink ran under 
Ink on outside of blade, ran under 
Pen blades not kept parallel to T square 
T square (or triangle) slipped into wet line 
Not enough ink to finish line 
Avoidable troubles of the ruling pen 
Mapping 
Davk Greenhood 
1944, 1964; 288 pp. 
4 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
f 
University of Chicago Press 
Chicago, Illinois 60628 
4 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
