The Population Bomb 
There’s a shit storm coming. Not a nice clean earthquake o1 
satisfying revolution but pain in new dimensions: world pain 
sub-continents that starve and sub-continents that eat unable 
to avoid each other. The consequences will dominate our 
lives. In the heart of the problem are the solutions, and the 
sooner we're clear about what’s happening the sooner the 
solutions can work their way out. 
This book is the best first 
hard look that’s around. The author is a well-regarded young 
population biologist and ecologist who freaked out of his lab 
and into the media with the bad news. Besides freaking well 
he reports well. 
The Population Bomb 
Dr. Paul R. Ehrlich 
1968; 223 pp. 
$.95 postpaid from 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
c/o Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
It is, of course, socially very acceptable to reduce 
the death rate. Billions of years of evolution have 
given us all a powerful will to live. Intervening in 
the birth rate goes against our evolutionary values. 
During all those centuries of our evolutionary past, 
the individuals who had the most children passed on 
their genetic endowment in greater quantities than 
those who reproduced less. Their genes dominate 
our heredity today. 
Population, Evolution, and Birth Control 
Once you've woken up to the population squeeze and 
the blindness of most of your fellow men, it’s worth 
looking around. Garret Hardin has assembled a 
strong selection of eyes to look around with. Here 
are the ingredients for understanding. Now, how do 
we get the mule’s attention? 
The closed earth of the future requires economic principles 
which are somewhat different from those of the open earth 
. of the past, For the sake of picturesqueness, | am tempted to 
call the open economy the ‘cowboy economy,’ the cowboy 
being symbolic of the illimitable plains and also associated with 
reckless, exploitative, romantic, and violent behavior, which 
is characteristic of open societies. The closed economy of the 
future might similarly be called the “spaceman’ economy, in 
which, therefore, man must find his place in a,cyclical ecologi- 
cal system which is capable of continuous reproduction of 
material form even though it cannot escape having inputs of 
USI OY: 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
* 
The State of Sieg. 
Everybody is freaking. Unfocused distress has been the 
psychic weather of the world for the last couple years, 
and it’s getting worse. 
C. P. Snow’s classic 1968 lecture 
brings the focus in sharp:. too many, too fast. 
[Suggested by Jerry Mander] 
In many places and for many purposes, including some of the 
fundamental human purposes, there are already too many people in 
- 
the world. Within a generation, there will be far too many. Within 
two or three generations—unless we show more sense, goodwill and 
foresight than men have ever shown—there will be tragically too many. 
So many that the ordinary human hopes will have disappeared. 
Disappeared irreversibly, perhaps: or at least for so long that we 
can't imagine how they will emerge again. 
Famine will take charge in many countries. 
It may become, by the 
end of the period, endemic famine. There will be suffering and 
desperation on a scale as yet unknown. This suffering will be 
witnessed—since our communications will be even better—by the 
advanced countries, whose populations will be living better than 
they are today. 
It is hard to imagine the psychological and political 
conditions which will be created by such a gap. Some of us are 
lucky who won't have to live in them. Without question, the rich 
populations will feel they are in a state of siege, sometimes ina 
literal sense: 
and it may be that our present unease is a shadow 
thrown backwards from the future. 
To keep before the world its long- 
term fate. Peace. Food. No 
more people than the earth 
can take. That is the cause. 
The State of Siege 
Cc. P. Snow 
1969; 50 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Charles Scribner's Sons 
Vreeland Avenue 
Totowa, N, J. 07512 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
EE) Masia Sa shaories iss 
The reproductive function of sex must be shown as 
just one of its functions, and one that must be care- 
fully regulated in relation to the needs of the 
individual and society. Much emphasis must be 
placed on sex as an interpersonal relationship, as an 
important and extremely pleasurable aspect of 
being human, as mankind’s major and most enduring 
recreation, as a fountainhead of his humor, as a 
phenomenon that affects every aspect of his being 
A 
ry 
5 
The battle to feed all of humanity is over. In the 
| 
1970's the world will undergo famines—hundreds 
of millions of people are going to starve to death in 
spite of any crash programs embarked upon now. 
At this late date nothing can prevent a substantial 
increase in the world death rate, although many 
lives could be saved through dramatic programs to 
‘stretch’ the carrying capacity of the earth by in- 
creasing food production. But these programs will 
only provide a stay of execution unless they are 
accompanied by determined and successful efforts 
at population contro!. Population control is the 
conscious regulation of the numbers. of human 
beings to meet the needs, not just of individual 
families, but of society as a whole. 
Nothing could be more misleading to our children 
than our present affluent society. They will inherit 
a totally different world, a world in which the 
standards, politics, and economics of the 1960's are 
dead. As the most powerful nation in the world 
today, and its largest consumer, the United States 
cannot stand isolated. We are today involved in the 
events leading to famine; tomorrow we may be 
destroyed by its consequences. 
@ 
Remember aiso that in virtually all underdeveloped 
countries, people have gotten the word about the 
_ 
better life it is possible to have. They have seen 
colored pictures in magazines of the miracles of 
Western technology. They have seen automobiles 
and airplanes. They have seen American and Euro- 
- 
pean movies, Many have seen refrigerators, tractors, 
and even TV sets. Almost all have heard transistor 
radios. They know that a better life is possible. 
They hae what we like to call ‘rising expectations.’ 
|f twice as many people are to be happy, the miracle 
of doubling what they now have will not be eneugh. 
It will only maintain today’s standard of living. 
There will have to bea tripling or better. Needless 
to say, they are not going to be happy. 
; 
; 
FY 
Yeh 
_A ship has hit the rocks and is sinking. 
3 
i 
ey 
The 
Passengers scream for help. Some jump overbo: 
and are devoured by the circling sharks. A group 
distinguished scientists is on board. One of their 
number suggests that they can help man the pum 
‘Oh, no!’ shout the others. ‘That might hurt the 
captain’s feelings. Besides, pumping 
is not our 
business. 
It’s outside our field of competence.’ 
can guess what they do. They appoint a commi 
to study the problem, with subcommittees on mai 
engineering and navigation. They announce to thi % 
Passengers that in two or three years the committee 
will produce a wonderful report which willbe 
acceptable to the passengers, the captain, and the 
steamship line. Not so passive are the politicians, 
Some jump up to say that the passengers don’t 
understand the political realities of the situation. 
— 
Other more progressive politicians grab thimbles and 
start bailing, stopping every few seconds to accept 
praise for their valiant efforts. 
: 
= 
Careless overuse of DDT has promoted to ‘pest’ 
__ 
category many species of mites, little insectlike 
relatives of spiders. The insects which ate the mit 
were killed by the DDT, and the mites were resis- 
tant to DDT. There you have it—instant pests, and 
more profits for the agricultural chemical industry 
in fighting these Frankensteins of their own creation. 
What's more, some of the more potent miticides the 
— 
chemists have developed with which to do battle 
— 
seem to be powerful carcinogens—cancer-producin 
substances. 
My 
z 
The old idea that industry could ereate the mess and 
~ 
then the taxpayers must clean it up has to go. Th 
garbage produced by an industry is the responsibil 
of that industry. 
; 
2 
SPE 
si: 
Population, Evolution, 
and Birth Control 
Garrett Hardin, ed. 
1964, 1969; 386 pp. 
$2.95 Postpaid 
from: 
- 
W.H. Freeman & Co. 
660 Market Street 
. 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
* 
The Second Genesis 
What | like about the threat of total human control in 
the near future is that it obliges us to figure out fast 
what we are about. We got the power; here comes the 
responsibility. 
Whether you prefer to embrace it, or flee. 
it (some should, for safeguard), or stay trembling where 
~ 
you are, you might as well have some detailed idea of. 
what's looming. 
% 
This book, by the Science Editor at LIFE, does good 
journalism on three spooky areas: Refabrication of the 
Individual; Exploration of Prenativity; Control of the 
Brain and Behavior. 
Hypothesis: changes this radical outdistance the laws 
but not the economy. 
Control diminishes for governments 
and increases for consumers. 
The outlaw area of rapid 
change. Witness dope. 
® 
Coming: The control of life. All of life, including human life. 
With man himself at the controls. 
Also coming: a new Genesis—The Second Genesis. The creator this 
time around—man. The creation—again, man. But anew man. Ina 
new image. A whole series of new images. What will the new images be? 
They will have to be quite different from the images we have known— 
the images that have led us to Vietnam, to turbulent racial conflict, 
to nuclear confrontation, to the threat of a polluted and overpopulated 
planet. 
- 
But all these things have come about—have they not?—with man at 
the controls, more or less. 
tf he is acquiring awesome new powers— 
and he is—with immeasurably greater controls, does this not 
accelerate us all, at uncountable G’s, toward the inevitable Dead 
End—a hundred bangs, followed by three billion whimpers? 
If we believe so, yes. 
But man’s new images may offer us surprising alternatives. Their 
creation will require the energetic projection of the best minds of 
the race to the farthest reaches of their imaginations. 
Futile effort? 
Anything but. What we believe about man, what we want for man, 
will profoundly influence what actually happens to man. 
What would you like: Education by injection? A catalog of spare body parts? 
A larger, more efficient brain? A cure for old age? Immortality through freez- 
ing? Parentless children? Custom-ordered body size and skin color? The ability 
to convert sunlight directly into energy, just as plants do, without utilizing food 
as an intermediary? Name it, and somebody is seriously proposing it. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
fee 
|f the food supply is falling short, or a new disease threatens 
us, inventions to relieve it must be made before famine and 
— 
pestilence have done their work. Now, we are far nearer 
to 
famine and pestilence than we like to think. Let there be an 
interruption of the water supply of New York for six hours, 
_ 
and it will show in the death rate. Let the usual trains bring — 
ing supplies into the city be interrupted for forty-eight hours, 4 
and some people will die of hunger. Every engineer who has — 
to deal with the administration of the public facilities of a grea 
city has been struck with terror at the risks which people are 
willing to undergo and must undergo every day, and at the 
complacent ignorance of these risks on the part of his charges... 
-Norbert Wiener 
The rest of the night | lay there sleepless, trapped between the 
Pee 
quavering human cry in the night and the cold fact that forced 
me to know | could not save him or the thousands of others 
whose cries | could not hear. The next morning they came 
_ 
and told us that the beggar was dead. 
oa 
Gerald Winfield 
In sober scientific circles today, there is hardly a subject more 
commonly discussed than man’s control of his own heredity and — 
evolution. And the discussions seldom leave much doubt that 
man will! acquire this control. 
It is a matter of when, not if. 
The late Dr. J. B. S. Haldane, always intrigued by the bizarre, wrote in 
1949: “If King Charles I’s or King Louis XV{’s head had been stuck 
within a minute or so [after their executions] on a pump which 
supplied oxygenated blood to it, it would almost certainly have 
_ 
come around, after half an hour or so, enough to open its eyes 
and move its lips, and would probably have recovered consciousne: 
| hope that if | have an inoperable cancer this experiment will be 
tried on me.” 
2 
‘ 
Could anyone ever replace a dead-but-frozen ruler? Asbillions of — 
people were frozen in every generation, the dead might ultimately 
own all the property and hold all the important offices. Barring 
the return of some sort of ancestor worship or a cult of the dead, 
wo 
the unfrozen population put up with it? With life so overabundant 
and so easy to produce anew, why should anyone want to go to all ‘ 
the trouble and expense of reviving all that competition? Those 
 _ 
piled-up frozen corpses might in fact be fiercely resented. 
If the 
planet became desperately overpopulated, with prevailing under- 
nourishment and contempt for life, their very presence might — 
even encourage a drift toward cannibalism. 
- 
* 
+ 
“There is no doubt,” says Richard R. Landers in Man's Place in 
— 
the Dybosphere, “that machines as a group will dominate man as 
— 
a group, and eventually, individual machines will dominate 
individual men. 
: 
“By dominate | mean control, regulate, restrain, influence, pervade, 
direct, guide, prescribe, etc., by virtue of superiority in all aspects” 
of tasks demanding a leader.” 
3 
- The Second 
| 
oye 
