Geology Illustrated 
An artist of aerial photography, Shelton uses some 400 of his 
finest photos to illuminate a discussion of the whole-earth 
system. Nota 
traditional textbook, but a fascinating explor- 
ation of the problems posed by asking “How did that come 
about?” Worth buying for the photos and book design alone, 
but you'll probably find yourself becoming interested in 
geology regardless of your original intentions. 
[Reviewed by Larry McCombs] 
rom: 
W. H. Freeman & Co. 
660 Market Street 
Geology IIustrated 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
John S, Shelton 
1966; 434 pp. 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
$10.00 postpaid 
CATALOG 
Surface Anatomy 
This book is included as a companion piece to the Earth 
picture books. 
The whole lovely system of the human 
creature, seen from without, surface by surface, is here. 
One of its main revelations is how cliché ridden our usual 
views of ourselves are—we are still not good with mirrors 
(satellites were up 10 years before we got a full view of the 
Earth). Posing friends and neighbors, with a simple light 
set-up and a 35mm camera, Joseph Royce has shot the 
most beautiful human album | know. 
/t also teaches anatomy. 
Structural Integration 
/n the mind-body continuum Ida Rolf works on the body 
and lets the mind come into line behind it. This brief 
article introduces her approach. What else has Ida Rolf 
published? 
[Suggested by Ed Rosenfeld] 
Structural Integration 
ae 
Ida P. Rolf 
Surface Anatomy 
1962: 20 pp. 
F STRUCTURAL 
Joseph Royce 
1965; 124 photographs 
price? 
INTEGRATION 
and some diagrams 
Gravity 
from: 
AN 
UNEXPLORED 
FACTOR 
$12.50 postpaid 
Ida P. Rolf 
INA MORE HUMAN USE 
11 Riverside Drive 
OF HUMAN BEINGS 
from: 
New York, N. Y. 
F. A. Davis Company 
1914 Cherry Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19103 
POSTURAL 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
a 
RELEASE 
Ida P. Rolf, Ph. D. 
An individual experiencing temporary fear, grief or anger, all too often 
carries his body in an attitude which the world recognises as the outward 
manifestation of that particular emotion. 
If he persists in his drama- 
tization or consistently re-establishes it, thus forming what is ordinarily 
referred to as a “habit pattern’’, the muscular arrangement becomes set. 
Materially speaking some muscles shorten and thicken, others are invaded 
by connective tissue, still others become immobilized by consolidation 
of the tissue involved. Once this has happened the physical attitude 
is invariable; it is involuntary; it can no longer be changed basically by 
taking thought, or even by mental suggestion. Such setting of a physical 
response also establishes an emotional pattern. Since it is not possible 
to express a free flow through the physical flesh, the subjective 
emotional tone becomes progressively more limited and tends to remain 
in a restricted and closely defined area. Now, what the individual 
feels is no longer an emotion, a single response to an immediate 
situation; henceforth he lives, moves and has his being in an attitude. 
It is through the creation of appropriate relationship in three dimensional 
space that a man may be freed to a higher and more truly human 
functioning. 
It therefore becomes imperative that not only must 
the effect of gravity be studied, but that the structural relations in 
man be understood in terms of gravity. !n this way man will call 
upon the earth to give him stature, grace and versatility befitting his 
new knowledge. 
In short, the earth is the integrating factor which 
offers him a more human use of his human being. 
