* 
The Human Condition 
At the end of a peyote meeting, in the morning, food and 
water are brought in 
by a woman designated to be Peyote 
Woman. 
Indian women are not supposed to speak up 
much on general subjects, and during a meeting the women 
are silent participants. But at dawn Peyote Woman has 
the floor and the power.She speaks of fundamental things 
like water and birth and nourishment with all the 
authority of the Earth and with awesome perception. 
Hannah Arendt does the same in this book. Her subject 
is the elements of the human condition. Her perspective, 
the threshold of travel away from the Earth. 
The Human Condition 
from: 
Hannah Arendt 
Doubleday & Co. 
1958; 385 pp. 
501 Franklin 
Garden City, N. Y. 
$1.45 postpaid 
11531 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
a= 
= 
e= 
Sse 
=e 
= 
The Human Use of Human Beings 
A proper sequel! to his Cybernetics 
[see p. 61] , this book is social 
untechnical, ultimate in most of its 
considerations. 
Its domain is the 
whole earth of the mind. 
Norbert Wiener 
1950, 1954; 288 pp. 
$1 25 postpaid 
from: 
Avon Books 
250 West 55th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
Norbert Wiener is one of the 
founders of an n-dimensional 
inhabited world whose nature we’ve 
yet to /earn. 
it is the thesis of this book that society can only be understood 
through a study of the messages and the communication facilities 
which belong to it; and that in the future development of these mes- 
sages and communication facilities, messages between man and ma- 
chine and between machine and machine, are destined to play an 
ever-increasing part. 
Human Use of the Earth 
To get a handle on your future you've got to get outside your- 
self, because only from outside can you see your space-time 
environment whole. One way is to identify out into another 
culture, Indian or whatever (this is Jim Nixon’s idea). Another 
way is to take Philip Wagner’s trip into fascinated objectivity 
about Earthly doings. In this book he merges some of the 
best of geographical and anthropological perspective into a 
detailed treatise on the Earth as tool, how it is used and how 
to understand it better to use it befter. 
Symbiotic relations are those in which the life processes of one 
organism are in some essential way dependent upon other organisms. 
They may be either obligate relations, in which one individual cannot 
survive independently from other individuals, of the same or another 
kind; or facultative relations, in which an individual may, but need 
not, take advantage of the presence of some other organism to carry 
on its life processes. Using a broad conception of symbiosis, we shall 
speak of it as including 1) predation, in which an individual destroys 
members of its own or another species in seeking its own livelihood; 
2) parasitism, in which an individual lives at the expense of other 
Organisms without providing direct benefits to them; 3) mutualism, 
in which both individuals involved derive benefit from the relation; 
and 4) commensalism, in which two or more species or individuals 
of one species depend upon the same habitat conditions, which one 
or both may help to maintain. 
The third and closest form of symbiosis among humans is full 
‘mutualism,’ which we can equate with constitution of a single 
economy. There are three possible degrees of symbiosis among men: 
1) those in which the mutual relationship which is the economy is 
much smaller in scope than the society (subsistence); 2) those in 
which there is a facultative mutual connection between the basic 
livelihood unit and the larger social group (peasant economies); and 
3) those in which the limits of the economic unit and the social unit 
coincide, and the full obligate mutual relationship prevails through- 
out (commercial economy). 
12 
The Human Use of Human Beings 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
2 
The task and potential greatness of mortals lie in their ability 
to produce things—works and deeds and words—which would 
deserve to be and, at least to a degree, are at home in ever- 
lastingness, so that through them mortals could find their 
place in a cosmos where everything is immortal except them- 
selves. 
It is true that one-man, monarchical rule, which the ancients 
stated to be the organizational device of the household, is 
transformed in society—as we know it today, when the peak 
of the social order is no longer formed by the royal household 
of an absolute ruler—into a kind of no-man rule. But this nobody, 
the assumed one interest of society as a whole in economics 
as well as the assumed one opinion of polite society in the salon, 
does not cease to rule for having lost its personality. As we 
know from the most social form of government, that is, from 
bureaucracy (the last stage of government in the nation-state 
just as one-man rule in benevolent despotism and absolutism 
was its first), the rule by nobody is not necessarily no-rule; it 
may indeed, under certain circumstances, even turn out to be 
one of its cruelest and tyrannical versions. 
For us, appearance—something that is being seen and heard by 
others as well as by ourselves—constitutes reality. Compared 
with the reality which comes from being seen and heard, even 
the greatest forces of intimate life—the passions of the heart, 
the thoughts of the mind, the delights of the senses—lead an 
uncertain, shadowy kind of existence unless and until they 
are transformed, deprivatized and deindividualized, as it were, 
into a shape to fit them for public appearance. 
ae 
HUMAN BEINGS 
Sociity 
Cyhemetics ard ¢ 
et 
By Norhert Wiener 
Eskimos keep their igloos hot. The microclimatology of buildings is 
a vast and little-known subject, but we may surmise that the interior 
climate of most kinds of buildings used by different human groups 
is about as follows: temperature mostly equal to or above prevailing 
Outside temperature (except where thick walls are used, asin the 
~ 
Mediterranean area and Near East); humidity usually above the level 
of the open air; oxygen concentration considerably lower than 
outside, and carbon dioxide and other minor gases far more 
abundant; noxious odors very prevalent. 
As we shall see, one of the strategies by which supplies of goods and 
services become available for actual use is the movement of the would- 
be consumers themselves to the sources of goods or services. There 
are even objects that act as containers of man himself, which move 
over land, across water or through the air, delivering the individual 
to the places at which he can obtain goods he desires, or where he 
will be served as he wishes. 
The modern inhabitant of a commercial country does not make his 
world; he buys it. The material circumstances of his life are not the 
outcome of his individual encounter with the natural order, but arise 
out of his relations with the social order. 
Ecologically speaking, even very primitive man is an extremely far- 
ranging creature, Men have migrated far more widely than almost 
any other animals. 
Man has been described as a “tool-using animal,’ but as is well known, 
many other higher mammals can employ natural objects spontane- 
ously as tools. Tool making, however, is peculiar to man. 
Manufacture adds vastly to the wealth upon which men can draw by 
making more things usable. 
It confers the status of resources upon 
things that are of no benefit to any other animal. 
Those same features of the most complex human communities which 
indicate their ecological advantages also suggest an unusual degree of 
inherent ecological risk. Such communities are complex and delicate- 
ly balanced, and depend utterly upon their artificiality. They and 
the individuals in them are threatened by the same biological 
penalties that attend any highly specialized system or species. Their 
very technical perfection may destroy them in time as other high 
specializations have destroyed many former species of animals and 
plants. 
Love, in distinction from friendship, is killed, or rather extir 
the moment it is displayed in public. (’’Never seek to tell thy 
Love that never told can be.”’) Because of its inherent wordl 
ness, love can only become false and perverted when it is used 
political purposes such as the change or salvation of the world. 
Without actually standing where Archimedes wished to stand 
(dos moi pou sto), still bound to the earth through the human 
condition, we have found a way to act on the earth and within 
terrestrial nature as though we dispose of it from outside, from 
the Archimedean point. And even at the risk of endangering 
' the natural life process we expose the earth to universal, cosmic 
forces alien to nature’s household. 
ae) 
The Cartesian removal of the Archimedean point into the mind 
of man, while it enabled man to carry it, as it were, within 
a 
himself wherever he went and thus freed him from given reality 
— 
altogether—that is, from the human condition of being an 
_ 
ihe 
inhabitant of the earth—has perhaps never been as convincing 
: 
as the universal doubt from which it sprang and which it was 
supposed to dispel. Today, at any rate, we find in the perplexities 
confronting natural scientists in the midst of their greatest 
: 
triumphs the same nightmares which have haunted the philosophers : 
from the beginning of the modern age. 
oa 
Ad 
‘ 
a 
Messages are themselves a form of pattern and organization. indeed, 
it is possible to treat sets of messages as having an entropy like sets cs 
of states of the external world. Just as entropy is a measure of dis- 
“ 
organization, the information carried by a set of messages is a measure 
of organization. |n fact, it is possible to interpret the information car- 
ried by a message as essentially the negative of its entropy, andthe 
— 
negative logarithm of its probability. That is, the more probable the 
message, the less information it gives. Clichés, for example, are less 
illuminating than great poems. 
J believe that Ashby’s brilliant idea of the unpurposeful random 
mechanism which seeks for its own purpose through a process of 
learning is not only one of the great philosophical contributions of 
the present day, but will lead to highly useful technical developments 
in the task of automatization. Not only can we build purpose into — 
machines, but in an overwhelming majority of cases a machine de- — 
signed to avoid certain pitfalls of breakdown will look for purposes 
_which it can fulfill. 
il 
We are not stuff that abides, but patterns that perpetuate them— 
i 
selves. A pattern is a message, and may be transmitted as a message. 
— 
It is the great public which is demanding the utmost of secrecy for 
modern science in all things which may touch its military uses, 
This demand for secrecy is scarcely more than the wish of a sick 
civilization not to learn the progress of its own disease. 
It is illuminating to know that the sort of phenomenon which is” 
recorded subjectively as emotion may not be merely a useless epi- 
phenomenon of nervous action, but may control some essential 
stage in learning, and in other similar processes. 
THE HUMAN USE 
OF THE EARTH 
PHILIP WAGNER 
~ 
pre oman 
The Human Use of the Earth = from: 
Philip Wagner 
Free Press 
J 
1960; 270 pp. 
Macmillan Company 
ia 
Front and Brown Streets 
. 
$1.95 postpaid 
Riverside, New Jersey 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALO 
The individual organism must, on the one hand, be specialized 
hy 
enough in function to exploit some particular conditionsinthe 
habitat, so as to occupy a niche that no other organism can contest — 
with it; and it must, on the other hand, possess enough versatility 
adapt to any conditions of environment that may impinge upon its 
life activities. These two requirements may be thought of as polar 
extremes of a continuous scale, and every species may be placed 
somewhere along the scale between specialization and versatility 
Some of the disadvantages of commitment to either specialization 
or 
versatility are overcome by aggregation of organisms into larger groups 
within the community. 
