ed text 
x 
_ Eye and Brain 
! can’t think of another book as well-made as this one. 
It is 
well designed, illustrated, and diagrammed. The wri ting is 
excellent, the subject matter important and new. The book 
is inexpensive. Altogether Eye and Brain /ets you see how 
crappy most books are. 
Stratton went on to perform other experiments which though less 
well-known are just as interesting. He devised a mirror arrangement 
which, mounted in a harness, visually displaced his own body, so that 
it appeared horizontally in front of him, and at the height of his own 
eyes. Stratton wore this mirror arrangement for three days (about 
twenty-four hours of vision) and he reported: 
“| had the feeling that | was mentally outside my own body. 
It was, of course, but a passing impression, but it came 
several times and was vivid while it lasted. .. But the moment 
critical interest arose, the simplicity of the state was gone, and 
my visible actions were accompanied by a kind of wraith of 
themselves in the older visual terms. 
Why should the perceptual system be as active in seeking alternative 
solutions as we see it to.be in ambiguous situations? Indeed it seems 
more active, and more intellectually honest in refusing to stick with 
one of many possible solutions, then in the cerebral cortex as a whole— 
if we may judge by the tenecity of irrational belief in politics or 
religion. The perceptual system has been of biological significance for 
far longer than the calculating intellect. The regions of the cerebral 
cortex concerned with thought are comparatively juvenile. They are 
self-opinionated by comparison with the ancient striate area 
responsible for vision. 
Held found that only the active kitten developed perception, the 
Passive animal remaining effectively blind. He thus suggested that 
active touch is essential to perceptual development. 
delayed signal 
tape loop — 
video tape 
delay 
television 
signal 
television camera 
An elaboration of the television technique makes it possible to 
displace retinal images not only in space, but in time. Temporal 
delay of images is a new kind of displacement, and promises to be of 
the greatest importance. The method is to use a TV camera and 
monitor, with an endless tape loop so that there is a time-delay 
between the recording from the camera and the playback to the 
‘ 
monitor. The subject thus sees his hands (or any other object) in 
the past; the delay being set by the gap between the Record and 
Play-back heads. 
This situation is not only of theoretical interest, but is also of 
Practical importance because controls used in flying aircraft, and 
Operating many kinds of machine, have a delay in their action: if 
such delay upsets the skill, this could be a serious matter. 
{t was 
found that a shortdelay (about 0-5 seconds) made movements jerky 
and iff co-ordinated, so that drawing became almost impossible, and 
writing quite difficult. Practice gives little or no improvement. 
R.L. Gregory 
Eye and Brain 
the psychology 
of seeing 
$2.45 
° 
i 
Eye and Brain 
— The Psychol 
f 
Seei 
; 
Eye reco 
e Psychology of Seeing 
i 
1966; 254 pp. 
4 
$2.45 Postpaid from: 
McGraw-Hill Book Company 
Princeton Road 
~ Hightstown, N. .J. 08520 
Manchester Road 
Manchester, Missouri 63062 
8171 Redwood Highway 
4 
Novato, CA 94947 
if 
> 
: 
" 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
D 
* 
Physical Control of the Mind 
! do not like this guy. He has insufferable hubris and he 
tramples on all my fondest notions about the independent 
life of the mind. Consequently he is highly useful to me. 
Pleasure is not in the skin being 
caressed or in a full stomach, but 
somewhere inside the cranial vault. 
The book is full of harsh physical evidence and harsh 
hypotheses that | have got to either surround or accept 
(or quit). Thanks, jerk. 
José M. R. Delgado, M.D. 
Physical Control 
of the Mind 
Physical Control of the Mind 
Jose M. R. Delgado, M. D. 
1969;-280 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row, Publishers 
49 E. 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
When the patient was warned of the 
oncoming stimulation and was asked 
to try to keep his fingers extended, he 
could not prevent the evoked movement 
and commented, ‘’I guess, Doctor, 
that your electricity is stronger than 
my will.” 
The old dream of an individual over- 
powering the strength of a dictator by 
remote control has been fulfilled, at 
least in our monkey colonies, by a 
combination of neurosurgery and elec- 
tronics, demonstrating the possibility 
of intraspecies instrumental manipu- 
lation of hierarchical organization. A 
monkey named Ali, who was the power- 
ful and ill-tempered chief of a colony, 
often expressed his hostility sym- 
bolically by biting his hand or by 
threatening other members of the 
group. 
Radio stimulation in Ali’s 
caudate nucleus blocked his usual 
aggressiveness so effectively that the 
animal could be caught inside the cage 
without danger or difficulty. During 
stimulation he might walk a few steps, 
but he never attempted to attack 
another animal. Then a lever was 
attached to the cage wall, and if it was 
pressed, it automatically triggered a 
five seconds’ radio stimulation of Ali. 
A female monkey named Elsa soon 
discovered that Ali's aggressiveness 
could be inhibited by pressing the lever, 
and when Ali threatened her, it was 
repeatedly observed that Elsa responded 
by lever pressing. Her attitude of 
looking straight at the boss was highly 
significant because a submissive monkey 
would not dare to do so, for fear of 
immediate retaliation. The total number 
of Ali's aggressive acts diminished on 
the days when the lever was available, 
and although Elsa did not become 
the dominant animal, she was 
responsible for blocking many 
attacks against herself and for 
maintaining a peaceful 
coexistence within the 
whole colony. 
The brontosauri became extinct because of their extremely limited 
mental powers; faced with an increasingly unfavorable climate and 
diminishing food supply, these animals were incapable of adaptation 
and could not survive in the changing environment. 
The fate of these giants may have symbolic value for twentieth 
century civilization, which is also attempting to direct tremendous 
potential with disproportionately small brains. While our mental 
faculties are incomparably superior to those of the early land 
animals, we still lack adequate self-knowledge and control, and 
natural history teaches that when underdeveloped brains are in 
charge of great power, the result is extinction. 
In my opinion, without stimuli (or without the brain), the mind 
cannot exist; without behavior, the mind cannot be recognized. 
Because of its essential dependence on sensory inputs, both at 
birth and throughout adult life, the mind may be defined as the 
intracerebral elaboration of extracerebral information. The problem 
is then focused on the origins, reception, dynamics, storage, 
retrieval, and consequences of this information. The basis of the 
mind is cultural, not individual. 
The newborn brain is not capable of speech, symbolic understanding, 
or of directing skillful mobility. 
It has no ideas, words, or concepts, 
no tools for communication, no significant sensory experience, 
no culture. The newborn baby never smiles. He is unable to 
comprehend the loving phrases of his mother or to be aware of 
the environment. We must conclude that there are no detectable 
signs of mental activity at birth and that human beings are born 
without minds. 
. 
.. the microneurons of the cerebellum, which serve as association 
elements, develop after birth under the influence of the infant’s 
behavioral activities. Therefore it can be said that the environment 
is absorbed as a structural part of the neurons in the developing 
brain. 
Watching a rat or monkey stimulate its own brain is a fascinating 
spectacie. Usually each lever pressing triggers a brief 0.5-to 1.0-second 
brain stimulation which can be more rewarding than food. Ina 
choice situation, hungry rats ran faster to reach the self-stimulation 
lever than to obtain pellets, and they persistenly pressed this lever, 
ignoring food within easy reach. Rats have removed obstacles, run 
mazes, and even crossed electrified floors to reach the lever that 
provided cerebral stimulation. 
It is surprising that in science as well as in literature more 
attention has been paid to suffering than to happiness. The 
central theme of most novels is tragedy, while happy books are 
hard to find; excellent monographs have been published about 
pain; but similar studies of pleasure are nonexistent. 
One of\the moving pictures taken in this study was very demonstrative, 
showing a patient with a sad expression and slightly depressed mood 
who smiled when a brief stimulation was applied to the rostral 
part of the brain, returning quickly to his usual depressed state, to 
smile again as soon as stimulation was reapplied. Then a ten-second 
stimulation completely changed his behavior and facial expression into 
a lasting pleasant and happy mood. Some mental patients have 
been provided with portable stimulators which they have used in 
self-treatment of depressive states with apparent clinical success. 
(1) Lack of predictability: When a point of the brain is stimulated 
evoked. ... 
for the first time, we cannot predict the effects which may be 
(2) Lack 
of purpose: 
In some cases the evoked response is 
directed by the animal in a purposeful way, but the movements and 
sequential responses are usually out of context, and there is no 
reason or purpose for yawning, flexing a hand, or walking 
around, apart from ESB. 
. 
. 
. [Electrical Stimulation of the Brain] 
(3) No robot performance: 
Brain stimulation activates cerebral 
mechanisms which are organized for motor performance, but it 
cannot replace them. With the present state of the art, it is very 
unlikely that we could electrically direct an animal to carry out 
predetermined activities such as opening a gate or performing 
an instrumental response. We can induce pleasure or punishment 
and therefore the motivation to press a lever, but we cannot 
control the sequence of movements necessary for this act in 
the absence of the animal’s own desire to do so. 
