~ Nomadics 
The Complete Walker 
Some of them old boys are into making houses out of 
chicken wire and condoms. Some of them can gather you a 
salad right off the forest floor. Some can make you a 
computer out of old Stromberg-Carlson radio parts and have 
enough wire and tubes left over for two laser death rays and 
a UFO. But Colin is into walking. His two previous books 
2 
are mainly about walks: In THE THOUSAND MILE 
SUMMER 
he tells about one he took up the entire Sierra 
range, and in TH E 
MAN WHO WALKED THRU TIME, he 
walks the whole Grand Canyon. 
This one is about walking, 
not walks. 
It’s not full of lore and woodsiness. 
It doesn’t 
tell you how to get back to nature, or cast civilization from 
ii 
your back and wander out with a bowie knife and a jock- 
strap. 
It gives a little walk philosophy, and then proceeds to 
discuss, in just the right detail, how to put a nice little well- 
equipped house and its fittings on your back, how to be able 
to go out and walk for a long time without having to come 
back for more stuff. 
! 
Besides just the stuff, what to take and what to leave behind, 
: 
it also takes you on a trip through Colin Fletcher, which is 
quite an outing all by itself. 
It’s hard to imagine a book on 
backpacking technique that will make you laugh out loud all 
the way through, but he does it. He really loves poking fun 
at himself. He gets completely hung up describing some 
gadget or technique which he then admits he’s never tried. 
He’ll spend a whole page defending what seemed at first an 
impossibly fussy personal idiosyncracy, and at the end you'll 
x 
be dying to go out and try it for yourself. He actually has a 
sizable section on how to urinate and defecate in the out- 
doors, and it’s a fine description. He includes a very complete 
appendix on suppliers, a list of walking organizations, and 
even a series of inspiring quotations to read while walking or 
thinking about walking. 
Most important, though, its the only backpacking book I’ve 
ever seen which, if read carefully, will actually tell you how 
to do it in great enough detail to enable you to just go out 
and do it. It’s also the only one that will really make you 
want to go out and walk for absolutely no ulterior motive. 
Be sure to dig pages 45-52, 123-132, 182-186, 213-218, the 
whole Furniture and Appliances section, and all the illustra- 
tions. 
One of the surest ways to tell an experienced walker from a beginner 
is the speed at which he starts walking. The beginner tends to tear 
away in the morning as if he meant to break every record in sight. 
By contrast, your experienced man seems to amble. But before long, 
and certainly by evening, their positions have reversed. The beginner 
is dragging. The expert, still swinging along at the same easy pace, is 
now the one who looks as though he has records in mind. One friend 
of mine, a real expert, says, ‘If you can’t carry on a conversation, 
you’re going too fast,’ 
The joys and techniques 
of hiking and backpacking 
Colin Fletcher | 
anther 
at The Man Who Wivtked Paniugh Time 
and stir the stew again and 
The Complete Walker 
Colin Fletcher 
1969; 353 pp. 
$6.95 
postpaid from: 
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. 
33 West 60th St. 
New York, N.Y. 10023 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Office-on-the-yoke 
When crowds assemble in Trafalgar 
Square to cheer to the echo the 
announcement that the government 
._ has decided to have them killed, they 
would not do so if they had all 
walked 25 miles that day. 
And the Lord said unto 
Satan, Whence comest 
thou? Then Satan 
answered the Lord, and 
said, From going to and 
fro in the earth, and 
from walking up and 
down in it. 
JOBI,7 
Bertrand Russell 
Nobel Prize Acceptance Speech 
At this point, steam issues from the stew pot. You reduce the heat to dead-low or thereabouts 
(taking care not to turn the stove off in the process), stir the compound a couple of times, inhale 
appreciatively and replace the cover. While dinner simmers toward fruition you empty two 
ounces of dehydrated peaches and a little water into the small cooking pot and put it ready for 
breakfast, up alongside the pack. Then you jot down a few thoughts in your notebook, stir the 
stew and sample it, find the beans are not quite soft yet. So you study the map and worry a bit 
about the morning's route, 
bedside boots, take off your shorts and slide halfway down into the mummy bag out of the wind, 
put map and pen and pencil and eyeglasses and thermometer into the 
find all ready. You pour-and-spoon out a cupful, leaving the balance 
on the stove because the wind is blowing distinctly cool now. And then, leaning comfortably 
back against the pack and watching the sky and the black peaks meld, you eat, cupful by cupful, 
your dinner. You finish it—just. Then you spoon-scrape out every last possible fragment and 
polish-clean the pot and cup and spoon with a piece of toilet paper. You put the paper under 
~ 
the stove so that you can burn it in the morning. Then you put cup and spoon into the break- 
i 
fast-readied smal! pot, pour the morning tea water into the big pot, set the big pot alongside the 
small one and the sugar and milk containers alongside them both, put the current day’s ration 
‘ 
bag into the pack (where it is moderately safe from mice and their. night allies) and.» + 
a 
pet 
The only adverse comment | would make is that his food 
preferences seem pretty sanpaku. But he also quotes the old 
proverb about hell being a place where the politicians are 
French, the police German, and the cooks English. 
[Reviewed by Roland Jacopetti] 
First remove any obvious and rectifiable local irritant, such as a 
fragment of stone or a rucked sock. Then cover the tender place. 
Cover it even if you can see nothing more than a faint redness. 
Cover it, in fact, if you can see nothing at all. Being a ‘hero’ is 
being a bloody fool. The covering may only be needed for a few 
hours; if you take it off at night and let the air get at the skin you 
: 
may not even need to replace it next morning. 
But if you do 
nothing at the first warning you may find yourself inside the hour 
with a blister that will last a week. 
Camping and Woodcraft 
How could anything written in 1976 still be so useful? One, 
it is a masterwork. 
Two, in Kephart’s day when you went 
camping you really disappeared, so there’s a valid nostalgia 
factor. But the main thing is, the book survives on its weatth 
of specific practical lore. Game: find the information that 
t 
is outdated, sort it from the information that is correct and 
! 
available nowhere else 
7 
} 
} . 
orace Kephart 
Twa volumes 
Sk coe... & complete handbook 
far 
vacwting campers and travelers in the wikdernnes. 
4 
Camping and Woodcraft $6.95 
postpaid 
Horace 
Kephart 
1917, 1921, 1967; 479 pp, from: 
The Macmillan Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, Burlington County 
new Jersey, 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
There is.a cardinal rule of travel, all 
too often overlooked, that | call the 
Law of Inverse Appreciation. 
It states: ‘The less there is between 
you and the environment, the more 
Because I so often walk without a shirt and therefore without 
a front pocket, I have had a five- by six-inch pocket sewn onto the 
front of my yoke strap, roughly where the shirt pocket comes. Into 
it go notebook and map, and sunglasses when not in use. Pen, pen- 
cil, camel-hair lens brush (page 233), and metal-cased thermometer 
(page 259) clip onto the front of it. I cannot imagine how I ever got 
along without such a pocket. Mine is made of ordinary blue-jean 
you appreciate that environment.’ 
material, but anything stout will do. 
For which side to put your office, see page 64. 
Men working hard in the open, and exposed to the vicissitudes of 
wilderness life, need a diet rich in protein, fats (especially in cold 
weather), and sweets. This may not agree with theories of dieticians, 
but it is the experience of millions of campaigners who know what 
_ 
their work demands. A low-protein diet may be good for men lead- 
ing soft lives, and for an occasional freak outdoorsman, but try it 
on an army in the field, or on a crew of lumberjacks, and you will 
face stark mutiny. 
e 
Rabbits are unfit to eat in late summer, as their backs are then infested 
with warbles, which are the larvae of the rabbit bot-fly. 
Green Corn.— If you happen to camp near a farm in the “Roasting- 
ear’’ season, you are in great luck. The quickest way to roast an ear 
of corn is to cut off the butt of the ear closely, so that the pith of 
the cob is exposed, ream it out a little, impale the cob lengthwise on the 
the end of a long hardwood stick, and turn over the coals. 
e 
Skilligalee.— The best thing in a fixed camp is the stock-pot. A large 
covered pot or enameled pail is reserved for this and nothing else. 
Into it go all the fag-ends of game — heads, tails, wings, feet, giblets, 
large bones — also the left-overs of fish, flesh and fowl, of any and all 
sots of vegtables, rice, or other cereals, macaroni, stale bread, every- 
thing edible except fat. This pot is always kept hot. Its flavors are 
forever changing, but ever welcome. 
It is always ready, day or night, 
for the hungry varlet who missed connections or who wants a bite 
between meals. No cook who values his peace of mind will fail to 
have a skilly simmering at all hours. 
\ A woodsman, on the contrary, walks with a rolling motion, his hips 
swaying an inch or more to the stepping side, and his pace is corres- 
| pondingly long. This hip action may be noticed to an exaggerated 
degree in the stride of a professional pedestrian; but the latter walks 
'- with a heel-and-toe step, whereas an !ndian’s or sailor’s step is more 
nearly flat-footed. In the latter’case the center of gravity is covered 
by the whole foot. The poise is as secure as that of a rope-walker. 
It is not nearly so much the ‘‘make” of rifle as the load it takes that 
determines the gun’s shooting qualities. So, choose first a cartridge, 
then a gun to handle it. 
e 
Benpinc Woop.—Small pieces of green wood can 
be bent to a required form by merely soaking the 
Tie. 54.—Spcnish Windlass (for bending wood) 
pieces for two or three days in water, but if it is 
desired that they should retain their new shape, they 
should be steamed. 
In Alaska, all animals leave for the snow-line as soon as the mosquito 
pest appears, but the enemy follows them even to the mountain tops 
above timber-line. Deer and Moose are killed by mosquitoes, which 
settle upon them in such amazing swarms that the unfortunate beasts 
succumb from literally having the blood sucked out of their bodies, 
Bears are.driven frantic, are totally blinded, mire in the mud, and 
starve to death. Animals that survive have their flesh discolored all 
through, and even their marrow is reduced to the consistency of 
blood and water. The men who penetrate such regions are not the 
— 
kind that would allow toil or privation to break their spirit, but they 
become so unstrung from days and nights of continuous torment 
inflicted by enemies insignificant in size but infinite in number, that 
they become savage, desperate, and sometimes even weep in sheer 
helpless anger. 
a 
iy 
G4 4 
a 
ic
= 
an
Fig. 68—A Masked Camp 
Trees and Lightning. — | have never seen, nor heard of, a beech tree 
that had been struck by lightning, although beeches are plentiful on 
many battle-scarred mountains where stricken trees of other species 
_ 
can be noted by the score. 
tls 
4 
: 
One glance at a camper's fire tells what kind of 
awoodsman heis. 
It is quite impossible to prepare a good meal over aheap of smoking 
chunks, a fierce blaze, or a great bed of coals that will warp iron and 
melt everything else. 
gts 
