ler takes his notion of bisociation to be the root of humor, 
scovery, and art. | take it to be one of the roots of learning, subject 
: pplications of method (on yourself or whomever). 
ti 
estler is a scientist of some reputation by now. He’s made contri- 
ions beyond the work of others that he’s generalized from. This 
book that gave him the reputation. 
if 
ere are two ways of escaping our more or less automized routines of thinking 
and behaving. The first, of course, is the plunge into dreaming or dream-like 
states, when the codes of rational thinking are suspended. The other way is 
: 
re also an escape—from boredom, stagnation, intellectual predicaments, and emo- 
_ tional frustration—but an escape in the opposite direction, it is signaled by the 
_ spontaneous fiash of insight which shows a familiar situation or event in a new 
“light, and elicits a new response to it. The bisociative act connects previously 
__uhconnected matrices of experience; it makes us ‘understand what it is to be 
__ awake, to be living on several planes at once’ (to quote T.S. Eliot, somewhat 
_ 
out of context). 
ie first way of escape is a regression to earlier, more primitive levels of ideation, 
exemplified in the language of the dream; the second an ascent to a new, more 
omplex level of mental evolution. Though seemingly opposed, the two pro- 
ses will turn out to be intimately related. 
lhen two independent matrices of perception or reasoning interact with each 
other the result(as | hope to show) is either a collision ending in laughter, or 
‘their fusion jn a new intellectual synthesis, or their confrontation in an aesthetic 
‘experience. The bisociative patterns found in any domain of creative activity 
tri-valent; that is to say, the same pair of matrices can produce comic, tragic, 
intellectually challenging effects. 
The re-structuring of mental organization effected by the new discovery implies 
_ that the creative act has a revolutionary or destructive side. The path of history 
is strewn with its victims: the discarded isms of art, the epicycles and phlogistons 
of science. 
- 
Associative skills, on the other hand, even of the sophisticated kind which re- 
quire a high degree of concentration, do not display the above features. Their 
biological equivalents are the activities of the organism while in a state of dy: 
namic equilibrium with the environment—as distinct from the more spectac- 
manifestations of its regenerative potentials. The skills of reasoning rely 
habit, governed by well-established rules of the game; the ‘reasonable 
son’—used as a standard norm in English common law—is level-headed in- 
id of multi-level-headed; adaptive and not destructive; an enlightened conser- 
ative, not a revolutionary; willing to learn under proper guidance, but unable 
be guided by his dreams. 
The main distinguishing features of associative and bisociative thought may 
ow be summed up, somewhat brutally, as follows: 
Habit 
Originality 
Association within the confines 
Bisociation of independent matrices 
of a given matrix 
Guidance by pre-conscious or 
Guidance by sub-conscious processes 
extra-conscious processes 
normally under restraint 
Dynamic equilibrium 
Activation of regenerative potentials 
Rigid to flexible variations on 
Super-flexibility (reculer pour mieux 
~atheme 
| 
sauter) 
Repetitiveness 
Novelty 
ys Conservative 
Destructive-Constructive 
The | Ching 
The I Ching, the Book of Changes, is a brilliant problem- 
solving device. A problem (or ignorance) generally consists 
of being caught in local cyclic thinking. To consult the 
oracle, the wisdom of chance (or synchronicity, no matter), 
is to step out of the cycle of no-change and address a specific 
tory on the nature of change. You now have an alternative 
set of solutions that owe nothing but proximity to your 
problem. You make the associations, you find the way out. 
‘s prayer. 
d 
an‘t think of a more important and useful book than this 
It’s famously ancient, poetic, deep, esoteric, simple, 
lving. /t has been the most influential book on Amer- 
1 art and artists in the last 15 years. 
st people know about it. We've included it here to point 
e new smaller (unabridged) cheaper Princeton University 
version of the classic Wilhelm-Baynes Bollingen edition. 
e oracle method is still on page 721. 
Ku/ Work on What has Been Spoiled 
Beaeiecay) 
above 
KEN 
Keeping Still, Mountain 
below 
SUN 
The Gentle, Wind 
‘Chinese character ku represents a bow! in whose contents 
are breeding. This means decay. It has come about because 
ntle indifference of the lower trigram has come together with 
id inertia of the upper, and the result is stagnation. Since this 
lies guilt, the conditions embody a demand for removal of the 
ise. Hence the meaning of the hexagram is not simply ‘‘what has been 
led” 
but “work on what has been spoiled.” 
I have coined the term ‘bisociation’ in order to make a distinction 
between the routine skills of thinking on a single ‘plane’, as it were, 
and the creative act, which, as I shall try to show, always operates on 
more than one plane. The former may be called single-minded, the latter a 
THE ACT (if CREATION 
; 
double-minded, transitory state of unstable equilibrium where the balance of 
- by Arthur Koestler 
both emotion 
and thought is disturbed. 
In the popular imagination men of science appear as sober ice-cold 
logicians, electronic brains mounted on dry sticks. But if one were 
shown an anthology of typical extracts from their letters and auto- 
biographies with no names mentioned, and then asked to guess 
their profession, the likeliest answer would be: abunch of poets 
or musicians of a rather romantically naive kind. 
Modern man lives isolated in his artificial environment, not because 
the artificial is evil as such, but because of his lack of comprehension 
of the forces which make it work—of the principles which relate his 
gadgets to the forces of nature, to the universal order. 
It is not 
central heating which makes his existence ‘‘unnatural,”’ but his 
refusal to take an interest in the principles behind it. By being 
entirely dependent on science, yet closing his mind to it, he leads 
the life of an urban barbarian. 
| must mention one specific factor which is largely responsible for 
e 
turning science into a bore, and providing the humanist with an 
The Act of Creation 
excuse for turning his back on it. 
It is the academic cant, of 
Arthur Koestler 
relatively recent origin, that a self-respecting scientist must be a 
1964; 750 pp. 
bore, that the more dehydrated the style of his writing, and the 
: 
more technical the jargon he uses, the more respect he will command. 
$1.25 postpaid 
| repeat, this is a recent fashion, less than a century old, but its 
effect is devastating. The pre-Socratics frequently wrote their 
pt ae, 
treatises in verse; the ancient Peruvian language had a single word— 
Dell 
Publishing Company, Inc. 
hamavec—for both poet and inventor. Galileo’s Dialogues and 
750 Third Avenue 
polemical writings were literary masterpieces which had a lasting 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
influence on the development of Italian didactic prose; Kepler's 
New Astronomy is a baroque tale of suspense; Vesalius’ Anatomy 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
was illustrated by a pupil of Titian. 
THE JUDGMENT 
WORK ON WHAT HAS BEEN SPOILED 
Has supreme success. 
It furthers one to cross the great water. 
Before the starting point, three days. 
After the starting point, three days. 
What has been spoiled through man’s fault can be made good again 
through man's work. 
It is not immutable fate, as in the time of 
STANDSTILL, that has caused the state of corruption, but rather 
s 
the abuse of human freedom. Work toward improving conditions 
WikBELMsnanes 
promises well, because it accords with the possibilities of the time. 
4 
: 
4 
We must not recoil from work and danger—symbolized by crossing 
of the great water—but must take hold energetically. Success depends, 
however, on proper deliberation. This is expressed by the lines, 
‘Before the starting point, three days. After the starting point, three 
days.’ We must first know the causes of corruption before we can do 
away with them; hence it is necessary to be cautious during the time 
before the start. Then we must see to it that the new way is safely 
entered upon, so that a relapse may be avoided; therefore we must 
pay attention to the time after the start. Decisiveness and energy 
: 
must take the place of the inertia and indifference that have fed 
‘ 
GORUNSEN SERIES XI x 
to decay, in order that the ending may be followed by a new 
: 
sesamin Sho 
beginning. 
THE IMAGE 
The wind blows low on the mountain: 
The image of DECAY. 
Thus the superior man stirs up the people 
And strengthens their spirit. 
When the wind blows low on the mountain, it is thrown back and 
The I Ching 
spoils the vegetation. This contains a challenge to improvement. 
It 
Translated by Richard Wilhelm, Cary F. Baynes 
is the same with debasing attitudes and fashions; they corrupt human 
? B.C.; 740 pp. 
society. To do away with this corruption; the superior man must 
regenerate society. His methods likewise must be derived from the 
two trigrams, but in such a way that their effects unfold in orderly 
$5.25 postpaid 
sequence. The superior man must first remove stagnation by stirring 
up public opinion, as the wind stirs everything, and must then 
from: 
strengthen and tranquillize the character of the people, as the 
Shambala Publications, Inc. 
mountain gives tranquillity and nourishment to all that grows in 
P. O. Box 4336, Sather Gate 
its vicinity. 
Berkeley, Calif. 94704 
Nine in the third place means: 
Oneal 
Setting right what has been spoiled by the father. 
There will be a little remorse. No great blame. 
: 
$6.00 postpaid 
This describes a man who proceeds a little too energetically in 
righting the mistakes of the past. Now and then, as a result, 
from: 
, 
‘ 
minor discords and annoyances will surely develop. But too much 
Princeton University Press 
energy is better than too little. Therefore, although he may at times 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
have some slight cause for regret, he remains free of any serious 
blame. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
