Seachine—CU (Consumers Union) j 
is there with the information 
on what's the best, or the best buy, or the healthiest of the 
ees available. 
|.e.: how not to get burned (one antici- 
ates the CU research on brand-name psychedelics). 
onsumer Reports is a monthly magazine with articles on 
| 
various classes of products and various cases of marketing 
| misbehavior; the December issue is the Buying Guide—a 
dense compendium of all the quality/price ‘information, 
| available separately for $1.95. | only wish the magazine 
| would print ads, give the manufacturers a place to beef back, 
liven up the Liberal Hour. 
The mae (left) and the Panasonic 
are useful for voice eres 
but beware 
of the unusually 
short bate life 
of the 
Panasonic 
3 
The cassette in the Sears must ‘ee 
pulled out; some 
'They’re playing our song 
other recorders have a convenient ejector button 
CUu’S KEY FINDINGS 
Consumer Reports 
After reading the letter in the July issue about 
| the record that turned out to be “Howdy 
‘Doody Time” played backwards, I thought of 
| a weird-sounding record that belongs to my 
|sister. Like the other record, it’s on the Bud- 
| dah Records label, by Kasenetz-Katz Associ- 
Cassettes look like the wave of the future in tape-recorded 
music. But right now the sound of cassette players (or at 
least of the portable models CU tested) is equivalent 
only to that of a good AM portable radio—pleasant casual 
$6.00 /yr. (monthly) U.S. 
$6.50 Canada, Latin America, Spain 
$7.00 elsewhere 
- Electric Toasters 
Cassette Tape Recorders 
Durable-Press Shirts 
listening. The four highest-rated models—the Sears at 
from: 
$67.95 plus shipping, the Norelco at $79.95, the Westing- 
Consumers Union 
- 
house at $89.95 and the Ampex at $99.90—had the best 
Mount Vernon, N. Y. 10560 
tone. For voice recording at, say, a conference, where 
the input will vary widely in volume, consider the Craig, 
$69.95, or the Panasonic, $59.95. Each has an automatic 
recording-level control that we found very effective in 
smoothing out variation in volume. (But beware of the 
Panasonic’s extraordinarily short battery life.) Check any 
recorder before you buy for excessive flutter, or uneven- 
ness of pitch, and for a misaligned head, which can result 
in loss of treble tones. The full report tells you how. 
| ation, Inc. The number is 5183. The main side, 
|“Sweeter than Sugar,” sounded right. But the 
|flip side, called “Bitter Lemon,” sounded like 
a weird moaning. So I reversed the turntable 
jand played “Bitter Lemon” from the center 
“out. It was “Sweeter than Sugar.” 
| FORT MYERS, FLA. 
Freezers 
Stainless-Steel Flatware 
Consumer Reports Buying Guide 
Champagnes 
| Melamine Dinnerware 
$1.95 postpaid 
Metronomes we 
from: 
Hot Plates 
Consumers Union 
Mount Vernon, N. Y. 10550 
G.M.L, 
Tipton buying # Chvisimas tree 
Sounds as though Kasenetz-Katz has come 
up with a neat way to cut down on recording 
expenses, but we wonder if they’ve con- 
sidered the interesting question of royalties. 
Who pays for mased plane connections? 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
= 
mans 
sonra? 
lees 
“ 
In every large Canadian or American city there is usually one, and 
: 
: 
often four or five qualified gynecologists or surgeons who are 
willing, for a price, to perform safe abortions (D. and C. or vacuum 
aspiration). Other doctors in the area, too afraid to do such 
operations themselves, learn of the existence of such colleagues 
and refer patients of their own to them. Pregnant women, 
looking for medical abortionists, usually find one by asking 
several doctors who will not perform the operation themselves 
to refer them to a doctor who will. Usually, after three or four 
, attempts the woman finds one doctor who knows a qualified 
medical abortionist. Very often, medical students, interns or 
social workers working in hospital clinics are-prepared to refer 
pregnant women to abortionists. 
In some cities, there are abortion 
referral services, such as those organized on university campuses, 
or a Clergymen’s Council on Abortion. 
Doctors who regularly 
perform abortions are usually highly skilled. They are careful 
to use local anesthetics during the operation and to prescribe 
antibiotics and pain killers (for cramps) to be taken after the 
abortion. 
F * a 
Birth Control Handbook 
ae 
D| 
| Fantastic. Definitive, thorough, heads-up, loving 
| treatment of the whole birth control picture. 
A book by the future for the future. 
There’s 
| nothing in the past like it. 
‘Birth Control Handbook 
| McGill Students’ Society 
| 1968, 1969; 46 pp. 
individual copies free plus postage (10¢), 
_bulk-cost price $35 per 1 ,000 copies 
| 
from: 
| Students’ Society of McGill University 
3480 McTavish Street 
Montreal, Quebec 
| CANADA 
~ 
x 
| 
Snugli Baby Carrier 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG has individual copies for 10¢ postpaid 
This is the most useful baby carrier | have ever seen. 
{t can 
be used with a day-old baby, because of the head support, 
as well as a 2 year old—but not simultaneously since to 
enlarge the pack tucks are taken out as the baby grows. 
Hh 
oy 
‘ 
Conception control necessarily Saees liberating potential for women. 
1A woman may safely engage in pideurabid sexual relations without 
| automatically submitting to the humiliating protective-dependent 
| relationship with a man which is ordinarily imposed. Also, a woman 
“now has the option of bearing and socializing children—it is no 
_ longer the sole source of her sexual and social identity. Once “‘out 
_ of the kitchen” a woman can begin to use her mind and body 
| towards socially productive ends by joining labor forces and 
| professions on a level of equality with men. 
A Snugli provides a mother with a baby carrier that allows 
her to have both hands free. New mothers can attend 
classes, work, shop, do housework, etc. without having to 
find a babysitter. Needless to say babies love it. If you 
can’t stand to live with a colicky baby, put it in this 
pack and fix dinner or whatever. 
eondoms can be bought from a drug store without a prescription. 
j The most common retail price for a good brand is about 3 for 
$1 .25 although the price varies considerably, especially with 
Jubricated and skin condoms. 
| It is common practice to keep a condom in a wallet or pocket 
| until it is needed. This is a serious mistake. The combination 
| of moisture and heat provided by contact with the body leads 
‘© deterioration of the condom. The sheath should never be 
kept in a wallet or pocket for any length of time; it is best to 
leave condoms in the small cardboard containers in which they 
ire usually sold. Kept this way, without excessive heat or 
The aerosol foam (used with an applicator) isa recent variation of 
9% 
the cream method. 
It works on the same principle as the jel or 
sid 
cream alone, except that the agent is packaged in a container 
as 
under pressure and is extruded as a foam into the applicator when 
% 
the latter is pressed against the container. The foam has special 
qualities that make it particularly acceptable. A smaller amount 
by weight is delivered, so women complain less of messiness; cost 
per application is reduced; and furthermore, the vehicle (or the 
non-reactive base) has characteristics similar to those of a 
“vanishing cream’’, so that leakage from the vagina after coitus 
is greatly reduced. 
The Snugli is of extremely high quality (will bear several 
machine washings and dryings per week and teething; 
te 
being stuffed in purses and being left in the rain.) It 
4 
is very comfortable as long as the shoulder straps are 
te 
kept tight so that the weight is not carried on the small 
of the back. 
/ recommend this as second only to diapers to prospective 
| moisture, condoms can be stored for several months. 
: 
A 
parents. 
- 
‘* 
[Reviewed by Mary Jane Markley. 
| “Tip” condoms, or condom caps, which fit only around the 
The most common method of male sterilization, an operation 
Suggested by Chris Brown] 
| glans of the penis should never be used, since they are likely 
known as a vasectomy, has no effects on a man’s 
sexual desire 
or virility, except perhaps to enhance it by relieving him from 
fears of having another child. The operation involves severing 
the vas deferens thereby preventing the passage of sperm from 
the testicles to the penis. Since the contribution of the testes 
accounts for only about 1/10 of the volume of the total ejac- 
Collsr support for 
newborn baby's head 
Tucks and darts can be 
let out for growing baby’ 
‘to ain off after orgasm. 
) 
- 
diaphragm should not be inserted more than 2 hours before 
Padded shoulder straps 
itus. Also, since it takes up to 6 hours for the spermicidal 
Detachable 
a 
reparation on the rubber dome to destroy sperm, the diaphragm 
ulate, the actual quantity of seminal fluid is not appreciably 
bubble bib 
Z*. agiusteble inner pouch witht 
ust not be removed until six hours after the last ejaculation. 
diminished. 
full-length zipper Yor 
. 
he diaphragm may be left in place for as long as 24 hours 
Arm and ‘eg holes ailowing 
after which it should be removed and washed with soap and 
eset 
reese Crimioreniate 
_ 
water. 
f 
) 
Although there is much disagreement among doctors as to which is 
the best |UD available, it seems that the Lippes loop (size D, a 
mii 
& 
eet 
| little more than 1 inch in diameter) is the best one. The Lippes 
: 
Tucks and darts cone 
HO 
fla ea ae 
| loop is preferred because it has lower expulsion and pregnancy + 
ae 
Son 
allows for 
wets et bation 
‘rates, and fewer side effects. Other advantages of the loop, 
) 
which it shares with such devices as the Marguiles coil include: y 
Lippes Loop 
e ease of insertion and removal, and a nylon appendage 
| which allows the woman to check for the IUDs presence. 
though sufficient research has not been done, it appears 
| 
that effectiveness and acceptability of the Saf-t-coil are 
similar to those of the loop. 
Full-length zipper for 
“te 
ae 
‘ — Adjustable belt 
are 
easy access 
Snugli Baby Carrier 
$28.95 postpaid 
from: 
Snugli 
Route 1, box 685 
Evergreen, Colorado 80439 
_ There has not been a single case reported in which an |UD 
| caused cancer. !UDs are not the cause of any kind of cancer. 
Marguiles Coil 
J 
os 
