* 
Technics and Civilization 
/ first read this book in 1957 then again in 1963 and then 
part of it in 1969. 
Here is the first paragraph of the book. 
During the last thousand years the material basis and the 
cultural forms of Western Civilization have been profoundly 
modified by the development of the machine. How did 
this come about? Where did it take place? What were the 
chief motives that encouraged this radical transformation 
of the environment and the routine of life: what were the 
ends in view: what were the means and methods: what 
unexpected values have arisen in the process? These are 
some of the questions that the present study seeks to 
answer. 
Lewis Mumford is an unusual man. He is not an engineer 
or a scientist, he isn’t an historian or sociologist, you can’t 
identify him as a business man or a literary man or an 
academic. He seems beyond all those roles. This made him 
especially attractive to me when | was 19 because his 
style smelled of the place | wanted to go. He is profound, 
poetic knowledgeable. He takes care of the large and small 
things in his books. 
Technics and Civilization is a good book to start with; if you 
like it, there are many others of his to turn to. Myth of the 
Machine, Arts and Technics, The City in History, Transformations 
of Man. 
How | have used him: all through my twenties | used him as 
my 
guide. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Steve Baer] 
Z 
Vu A 
no 
ies 
bd 
Hs 
rs 
2: The printing press was a powerful agent tor producing uniformity in lan- 
guage and so, by degrees, in thought. Standardization, mass-production, and 
capitalistic enterprise came in with the printing press; and not without irony, 
the oldest known representation of the press, shown here, appeared in a 
Dance of Death printed at Lyons in 1499. 
a 
The Age of Discontinuity 
How come Peter Drucker has so much good sense and 
perspective, and still remains so cheerful? Traditionally 
considerations such as his—economics, organizations, the 
future—turn a prophet’s soul terrible and dark or at least 
partially wiggy. The only other intact floater on this ocean 
! know of is Marshall McLuhan. 
You sense that both of 
them have a backyard in their mind that resides somewhere 
else, some time else. (It would be worth pursuing this. 
How To Think Big and Stay Sane.) 
The Age of Discontinuity takes notice of the remarkable 
continuity of the last 50 years in building on the 
technological breakthroughs of the Victorian era. Now, 
says Drucker, we are in for some hard changes, particularly 
around new technologies (of information, materials, oceans, 
megalopolis), global economics, and redistribution of 
responsibility in large organizations. 
* 
The Step to Man 
I'll be damned. | thought this was another yessir-things-are- 
changing technological social treatise thing. No such. It’s 
a manual of strategies for changing the world, if you have a 
mind to do that. Not heavy stuff about what is terrible 
or what should happen, but how to remake life and stay 
alive in the process. Strategies like multiple working 
hypotheses so you don’t get infatuated with your first idea. 
Like seed operations where one phone call makes the whole 
thing happen. Like self-stabilizing provisions so a process 
is safe from its own too-quick successes. 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
On any given morning at the Laboratory of Molecular Biology 
in Cambridge, England, the blackboards of Francis Crick or 
Sidney Brenner will commonly be found covered with logical 
trees. On the top line will be the hot new result just up from 
the laboratory or just in by letter or rumor. On the next line 
will be two or three alternative explanations, or a little list of 
“What he did wrong.” Underneath will be a series of suggested 
experiments or controls that can reduce the number of 
possibilities. And so on, Thre tree grows during the day as one 
man or another comes in and argues about why one of the 
experiments wouldn’t work, or how it should be changed. 
° 
; 
As the philosopher Karl Popper says today, there is no such thing 
as proof sin science—because some later alternative explanation may 
be as good or better—so that science advances only by disproofs. 
There is no point in making hypotheses that are not falsifiable, 
because such hypotheses do not say anything; “‘it must be possible 
for an empirical scientific system to be refuted by experience.” 
The difficulty is that disproof is a hard doctrine. If you have a 
hypothesis and | have another hypothesis, one of them must evidently 
be eliminated. The scientist seems to have no choice but to 
be either soft-headed or disputatious. Perhaps this iswhy so 
many tend to resist the strong analytical approach—and why 
some great scientists are so disputatious. 
Choice manifests itself in society in small increments and moment- 
to-moment decisions as well as in loud dramatic struggles; and he 
who does not see choice in the development of the machine merely 
betrays his incapacity to observe cumulative effects until they 
are bunched together so closely that they seem completely external 
and impersonal. No matter how completely technics relies upon 
the objective procedures of the sciences, it does not form an inde- 
pendent system, like the universe: 
it exists as an element in 
human culture and it promises well or ill as the social groups that 
exploit it promise well or ill. The machine itself makes no demands 
and holds out no promises: 
it is the human spirit that makes demands 
and keeps promises. 
In order to reconquer the machine and subdue 
it to human purposes, one must first understand it,and assimilate 
it. So far, we have embraced the machine without fully understanding 
it, or like the weaker romantics, we have rejected the machine 
without first seeing how much of it we could intelligently 
assimilate. 
Weer arene 
Technics and Civilization 
Lewis Mumford 
1934, 1962; 495 pp. 
$3.75 postpaid 
from: 
Harcourt, Brace & World 
757 Third Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
ATH A SE ENTRODUC TION 
Technics 
and Civilization 
PEWIS VE MEORD 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
If the mechanical clock did not appear until the cities of the 
thirteenth century demanded an orderly routine, the habit of 
order itself and the earnest regulation of time-sequences had become 
almost second nature in th emonastery. Coulton agrees with Sombart 
in looking upon the Benedictines, the great working order, as 
perhaps the original founders of modern capitalism: 
their rule 
certainly took the curse off work and their vigorous engineering 
enterprises may even have robbed warfare of some of its glamor. 
So one is not straining the facts when one suggests that the monasteries— 
at one time there were 40,000 under the Benedictine rule—helped 
to give human enterprise the regular collective beat and rhythm of the 
machine; for the clock is not merely a means of keeping track of the 
hours, but of synchronizing the actions of men. ... The instrument 
presently spread outside the monastery; and the regular striking of 
the bells brought a new regularity into the life of the workman and the 
merchant. The bells of the clock tower almost defined urban existence. 
Time-keeping passed into time-serving and time-accounting and time- 
rationing. As this took place, Eternity ceased gradually to serve as 
the measure and focus of human actions. 
The Age of Discontinuity 
Peter F. Drucker 
1969; 401 pp. 
$7.95 postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row 
49 East 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
We face major changes in the world’s economy. In economic 
policies and theories, we still act as if we lived in an “international” 
economy,.in which separate nations are the units, dealing with one 
another primarily through internatinal trade and fundamentally as 
different from one another in their economy as they are different in 
_language or laws or cultural tradition. But imperceptibly there has 
emerged a world economy in which common information generates 
the same economic appetites, aspirations, and demands—cutting 
across national boundaries and languages and largely disregarding 
political ideologies as well. The world has become, in other words, 
one market, one global shopping center. Yet this world economy 
almost entirely lacks economic institutions; the only—though 
important—exception is the multinational corporation. And we are 
totally without economic policy and economic theory for a 
world economy. 
The Step to Man 
John R. 
Platt 
1966; 216 pp. 
$6.95. postpaid 
from: 
John Wiley and Sons Publishing Co. 
1 Wiley Drive 
Somerset, N. J. 08873 
Western Distribution: 
1530 South Redwood Road 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Beware ot the man of one method or one instrument, either 
experimental or theoretical. He tends to become method- 
oriented rather than problem-oriented. The method-oriented 
man is shackled; the problem-oriented man is at least reaching 
freely toward what is most important. Strong inference 
redirects a man to problem-orientation, but it requires him 
to be willing repeatedly to put aside his last methods and teach 
himself new ones. 
e 
In order to carry out any great project, the future good of the group 
must be anticipated and turned into present and individual good, 
into a reward for every step that is taken in the right direction. 
| am beginning to believe that in any social endeavor, it is the 
analysis of chain-reacting social processes that will enable us to 
choose the best course and will indicate the most effective ways 
for our intelligence to multiply its feeble energies. The future 
is waiting to respond to a touch, if it is the right touch. It is 
ingenuity we need, not lamentations. The world’s future becomes 
almost plastic in the light of these possibilities. 
° Faustian soul: they were wind-blown seeds from other cultures. 
_ Since the computer first appeared in the late 1940's the information 
~Sears Roebuck should not come out tomorrow with an appliance 
__ 
“needed for schoolwork from first grade through college. 
_ What we are lacking is not a piece of hardware like the light bulb. 
_ 
ships in the rest of our networks to be discovered. If this prope 
Most of the important inventions and discoveries that served as: 
nucleus for further mechanical development, did not arise, 
a 
Spengler would have it, out of some mystical inner drive of th 
After the tenth century in Western Europe the ground was, as! 
have shown, well plowed and harrowed and dragged, ready to 
receive these seeds; and while the plants themselves were growing, 
the cultivators of art and science were busy keeping the soil 
= 
friable. Taking root in medieval culture, in a different climate a 
soil, these seeds of the macine sported and took on new forms: 
perhaps, precisely because they had not originated in Western Europe 
and had no natural enemies there, they grew as rapidly and» 
gigantically as the Canada thistle when it made its way onto the 
South American pampas. But at no point—and this is the important 
thing to remember—did the machine represent a complete break. 
So far from being unprepared for in human history, the modern 
_ 
machine age cannot be understood except in terms of a very long — 
and diverse preparation. The notion that a handful of Brisith 
inventors suddenly made the wheels hum in the eighteenth century — 
is too crude even to dish up as a fairy tale to children. 
is 
F 
fi
Old Paper Mill. Note that the wheels and shafts are almost 
entirely composed of wood. This material lingered on in 
machine-building and in mill-construction well into the 
nineteenth century. Metal was, up to the paleotechnic 
period, merely an accessory, used where a cutting edge or a 
resistant material was imperative, as in the runner of a skate. 
(Courtesy, Deutsches Museum, Miinchen) 
Measured.by the yardsticks of the economist, the last half-century 
has been an Age of Continuity—the period of least change in three 
hundred years or so, that is, since world commerce and systematic 
agriculture first became dominant economic factors in the closing 
decades of the seventeenth century... . 
What is amazing is perhaps-not that it took a half-century for the 
work and thought of those earlier generations to bring full fruit. It 
is that the generation of 1900, which we tend today to look down on 
— 
as stodgy stick-in-the-muds, laid down economic foundations of such — 
strength and excellence that they have prevailed over all the wicked- 
ness, criminal insanity, and suicidal violence of the last fifty years. 
The towering economic achievements of today, the affluent, mass- 
consumption economies of the advanced countries, their productivity — 
and their technological powers, are built four-square on Victorian 
4 
and Edwardian foundations and out of building blocks quarried then. | 
They are, above all, a fulfillment of the economic and technological 
_ 
promises of the Victorian and Edwardian eras and a testimony to 
r 
their economic vision. 
ae 
Now, however, we face an Age of Discontinuity in world economy 
- 
and technology. We might succeed in making it an age of great 
J 
economic growth as well. But the one thing that is certain so far is 
that it will be a period of change—in technology and in economic 
policy, in industry structures and in economic theory, in the knowl 
needed to govern and to manage, and in economic issues. 
r 
While we have been busy finishing the. great nineteenth-century 
economic edifice,.the foundations have shifted under our feet. 
e 
ry gd 
industry has been a certainty. But we do not have it yet. Westill 
— 
do not have the effective means to build an “information system.” — 
This is where the work is going on, however, The tools to create 
information systems may already exist: the communications satellite 
and other means of transmitting information, microfilm and the TV 
tube to display and store it, rapid printers to reduce it to permanent | 
record, and so on. There is no technical reason why someone like — 
selling for less than a TV set, capable of being plugged in wherever 
— 
there is electricity, and giving immediate access to all the information 
Yet though IBM is now shipping computers at a rate of a thousand “ 
a month, we do not have the equivalent of Edison’s light bulb. 
What we still have to create is the conceptual understanding of 
| 
information. As long as we have to translate laboriously every set _ 
. 
of data into a separate “program,” we do not understand information. 
We have to be capable of classifying information according to its 
characteristics. We have to have a “notation,” comparable to the one — 
St. Ambrose invented 1,600 years ago to record music, thatcan 
express words and thoughts in symbols appropriate to electronic 
a, C 
pulses rather than in the clumsy computer language of today. Then 
each person could, with very little training, store his own data within - 
a general system, that is, in what the computer engineerscalla 
= 
“routine.” Then we shall have true “information systems.” 
= 
We begin to realize that our brains are the most complex and 
self-determining things in the known universe. After all the 
8 
measurements of atoms and galaxies are folded into lawsinsome 
corner of our networks, there will still be universes of interrelation- 
of complexity could somehow be transformed into visible 
brightness so that it would stand forth more clearly to our senses, 
the biological world would become a walking field of light 
oy 
compared to the physical world. The sun with its great eruptions 
— 
would fade to a pale simplicity compared to arosebush. Ans 
earthworm would be a beacon, a dog would be a city of light, 
a 
and human beings would stand out like blazing suns of complexity, 
flashing bursts of meaning to each other through the dull night 
of the physical world between. We would hurt each other’s 
eyes. Look at the haloed heads of your rare and complex 
Wg 
companions. ts it not so? 
¢ 
