* 
Concrete Boatbuilding, Its Technique and its Future 
One of the favourite (and true) tales of ferro-cement enthusiasts 
is that of the boat with %” thick hull hitting a subjerged rock 
at 12 knots, and smashing the rock. No damage to the hull. 
This is the long-awaited and best book on ferro cement, by 
two New Zealand boat builders, and with an introduction by 
Pier Luigi Nervi, the father of ferro cement. 
This rapidly-developing boat building technique, utilizing 
a mixture of sand and cement plastered over a wire framework 
results in a super-strong, fireproof 4°-%” boat hull. The 
components are cheap, and less skilled labor and special 
too/s are required than,in wooden or fiberglass boat 
building. 
The authors share details of their considerable experience 
here, and there is a fine concise section on how to build, with 
chapters on reinforcing, mortar mixing, and finish work. 
Now that the technique is working well on the sea, it’s about 
time someone tried some free-form ferro cement /and structures. 
o Oo 
Shrinkage 
in 
Tom 
a fe) 
40 
Time from end of curing (days) 
Fig. 18 
The quantity of water in a mix has a considerable bearing on the strength of 
the 
concrete produced. Simply stated, the rule is this: a low water-cement ratio increases 
strength, a high water-cement ratio decreases strength. But obviously there must 
come a point where the water content can be too low. The minimum amount of 
° 
water necessary to begin the process of hydration may still be too low to make the 
mix sufficiently workable to enable 
it to be properly compacted. Insufficiently 
compacted dry mixes may be weaker than well-compacted wet mixes at a certain 
point, as the following diagram shows. 
Mix 
proportions 
Some interesting shrinkage test results (shown below) have been published by J, G. 
Byrne and W. Wright, to whom we are indebted. 
Shrinkage Tests 
Cement-sand 
ratio 
Neat 
0-70 
0:60 
0-50 
0-40 
0-40 
0-40 
0-33. 
0°33 
Water-cement 
ratio 
0-35 
0-40 
0:40 
0-40 
0:45 
0-50 
0-55 
0°50 
0°55 
Shrinkage 
84 
71 
63 
44 
57 
57 
53 
47 
45 
Obviously, it would appear that mortar made with a cement-sand ratio of approx- 
imately 0-50 (2 of sand to 1 of cement) and a water-cement ratio of 0-40, produces 
. 
a satisfactory combination from the point of view of shrinkage. Mixes of approxi- 
mately this type have been used by boatbuilders in many countries, 
and our 
experience in New Zealand would indicate that these proportions are basically 
satisfactory in practice. Dr Nervi has used proportions which are similar. 
OM GO® GoW Go 6 4 
6 HD 90M GOW GG 
Audel Guides 
— care-must be taken in building con- 
Banding the pine framneste the fast 
step in building a ferro cement 
boat, from page 
48 of 
CONCRETE 
SBOATBUILDING: 
Technique and its Future 
Its 
by Gainor W. Jackson and W. Morley 
Sutherland, pioneers in ferro cement 
boatbuilding in. New Zealand, Suther- 
land, an experienced engineer in con- 
crete, runs Ferro-Cement Ltd, “This is 
the book we have been waiting for,” 
wrote John Gardner in a review of 
Concrete Boatbuilding 
in 
the 
April 
National 
Fisherman. 
Well, 
wait 
no 
longer; here she is. Doctor Pier Luigi 
Nervi, 
the 
father 
of ferro 
cement, 
wrote in the Foreword to the book, 
“This book is without doubt the best 
guide to concrete 
boats for all un- 
prejudiced people interested in things 
of the sea.” 
And the authors say in 
their 
introduction, 
“We 
have 
tried 
in this book to explain in detail the 
technique of building a ferro cement 
boat; how the mortar should be mixed, 
the reinforcing armature constructed, 
and the concrete plastered. Although 
conceivably have a military application. 
with polythene cut and taped where needed. 
Wire mesh to these. 
crete boats, as indeed with any boat. 
the skills demanded: of the amateur 
are 
perhaps 
less 
than 
required 
to 
build a comparable boat in wood. And 
on the whole the work is physically 
easier. 
The cost of building larger 
pleasure craft in concrete is certainly 
less than in any competing material. 
On this ground alone, the technique 
promises to have a great impact on 
future 
small-boat 
building.” 
The 
authors do share the details of their 
experience in this book. For example, 
they 
warn 
the inexperienced 
ferro 
cement boatbuilder that the stringer 
rods must be wired to the pipe frames 
very tightly so that they will not slip 
with the considerable weight of the 
wet mortar when it is applied. That 
sounds like the kind of advice that 
can stop catastrophes. The most im- 
portant part of this book is the concise 
section on how to build, covering set- 
ting up the reinforcing, mixing the 
mortar, and plastering and finishing 
the boat. But the book also describes 
the development of concrete technolo- 
gy, compares ferro cement with wood, 
steel, and fiberglass boats, tells how 
Concrete Boatbuilding 
Its Technique and Its Future 
Gainor W. Jackson 
W. Morley Sutherland 
$7.95 
postpaid 
© some ferro cement boats have per- 
We've seen no series of individual technique publications 
more complete than the Audel books published by Howard 
Sams and Company. However, we’re not proficient enough 
in this area to critique particular manuals against others in 
their field. Suggestions and reviews invited. 
This part of the WHOLE EARTH CATALOG should be one 
of the most thorough. How-to books are notoriously unre- 
viewed. 
aaa 
from: 
Theo. Audel & Company 
4300 West 62nd Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46206 
reek oF concrete ot 
angles 
with © 
alumi 
© boatbuilding technology, as far as we 
e from National Fisherman 
formed, discusses ferro cement appli- 
cations to fishing boats, and presents 
the lines and offsets of the Matangi, 
a@ 36-foot, 
sloop-rigged 
motor 
sailor 
that Sutherland built for his own use. 
Although this book is obviously not 
the last word on a fast developing 
from: 
John de Graff, Inc. 
34 Oak Street 
Tuckahoe, N. Y. 10707 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
know, it’s the best book in print on 
ferro cement boatbuilding. 
ie) 
@ Bo 
Bo 0 co 6 GH GoM GoH Go 
All of the following prices are postpaid. 
Automobile Guide 
(AUD—1) $6.95 
Home Appliance Service Guide (AUD—2) $6.95 
Radiomans Guide (AUD—3A) $5 
Television Service Manual (AUD—3B) $5 
Handy Book of Practical Electricity (AUD—4) $5.95 
Truck and Tractor Guide (AUD—5) $5.95 
Plumbers & Steam Fitters Guides — 4 Vols. (AUD—6) 
Painting & Decorating Manual (AUD—7) $4.95 
Carpenters and Builders Guides — 4 Vols. (AUD—8) sev $16.95 
Diesel Engine Manual (AUD—9) $6 
Welders Guide (AUD—10) $4.95 
Mathematics and Calculations for Mechanics (AUD—11) $4.95 
Machinists Library (AUD—12) $13.50 set 
Wiring Diagrams for Light and Power (AUD—13) $4 
: 
Home Refrigeration & Air Conditioning Guide (AUD—14A) $6.95 
New Electric Library 10 Vols. (AUD—15A) set $25 
Answers on Blueprint Reading (AUD—25) $4.95 
Masons & Builders Guides — 4 Vols. (AUD—26) set $10.50 
Electric Motor Guide (AUD—27) $5.95 
Oi! Burner Guide (AUD—28) $3.95 
Sheet Metal Pattern Layouts (AUD—29) $7.50 
Sheet Metal Workers Handy Book (AUD—30) $3.95 
Mechanical Drawing Guide (AUD—31) $3 
Mechanical Drawing and Design (AUD—32) $3.95 
Questions & Answers for Electricians Exams (AUD—34) $3.50 
Electrical Power Calculations (AUD—35) $3.95 
New Electric Science Dictionary (AUD—36) $3.50 
Fig. 10—Shoestring rowboat 
(a) A rough and ready rowboat can be built from beach sand and cement as follows. Although not in the 
best tradition of ferro-cement, the form of construction is beautifully simple and inexpensive. It could 
(b) First form a mould of damp beach sand. Mix in a little fast-setting cement for the outer layer. Cover 
(c) Next cover with approximately four layers of 4° chicken netting. Wire tie at overlaps and hold at 
gunwale with a barid of No. 8 fencing wire. Additional bands of fencing wire oyer the hull add stiffness. 
o 
(d) Finally plaster with beach sand and quick setting cement mixed 2 to 1 with a minimum of water. 
Plaster layer of approximately 4°, thickening to an inch at the gunwale, more at the keel. After two days, 
lift hull from mould, patch up inside and where possible sink boat to cure concrete for a few days. 
* 
Additives 
lf one wishes to speed up the action of ordinary Portland cement, 
the addition of a suitable accelerator will help to achieve a higher 
— 
early strength. The addition of a little true pozzolanic material in 
place of some of the cement can assist where the aggregate is high 
in lime content by combining with free lime to produce abetter 
product. 
In New Zealand professional practice is now to discontinue 
using pozzolana as the aggregates used are of a high silica content. 
— 
Rather than lime, which has several disadvantages, we recommend a | 
good proprietary plasticizer. One of the great advantages is that 
modern plasticizers require no lengthy preparation as does lime. 
Although most plasticizers have a tendency to reduce strength 
slightly, they do enable less water to be used and certainly 
My 
improve workability considerably. They should, however, be used 
: 
sparingly and in quantities only sufficient to make the mix workable. 
__ 
Generally speaking, additives such as waterproofing agents should 
be looked at carefully. 
It is difficult to improve on high-grade 
Portland cement as an impervious barrier when mixed with well- 
| 
graded sand for boat use. 
In New Zealand so-called waterproofing 
additives are not used. 
v 
Clean and well-graded sand is important if one is to make 
the high grade impervious mortar required for boatbuilding. 
Sharp silica sands are preferable, but not essential. 
\ 
. 
Tig 
' 
Wood attached to /ow grade concrete can result in a fungus penetration under 
— 
water, but here again this has not becn apparent with high density mortar. An- 
epoxy coat beneath any woodwork could allay any fears. 
Fig. 25.—Detail showing common method of joining a wood cabin to a concrete deck, Recess in 
concrete is achieved by fastening a guide batten before plastering. 
r 
A: Wood caps, B: Cabin wall set into concrete tur up, Sealing compound is used behind joint. C; Wood 
cap, D: Ferro-cement hull and deck. E: Brass cap on wood rubbing stake, 
= 
There are several different types of concrete mixers in general use. 
The most common machine used by jobbing handymen is the 
tilting drum mixer. Although satisfactory for general work, 
this type is not recommended for mixing mortar for boat construction. 
One objection is that a stiff mix, such as required for boats, 
ne 
tends to cling to the bottom of the drum and not become adequately 
— 
mixed. Far better is the revolving paddle type, or the revolving 
pan and paddle mixer. 
In both of these the mix tends to be 
squeezed by the inclined paddles and workabilitv is achieved with 
less water than would be needed otherwise. The latter consists 
of an open pan which revolves. 
Inside the pan, paddies attached 
to an eccentrically placed shaft revolve either in the same, or 
opposite direction to the pan. Both are illustrated 
diagrammatically. 
Usually the mixer will be required for only aday atatime, and 
it is suggested that the average builder might find it more economical 
to hire, rather than buy, a suitable machine. 
a 
In practice it will be found that the mixer bowl and blades will 
keep cleaner if some of the measured water content is added first, 
followed by some sand. Then the bag of cement can be broken and _ 
its contents added, followed quckly by the remaining sand, water 
— 
and plasticizer. Pozzolana and any other additives should be 
; 
dusted as evenly as possible throughout the mix while turning. 
Power Plant Engineers Guide (AUD—37) $6.95 
Questions & Answers for Engineers & Firemans Exams (AUD—38) $4 a: 
Pumps,Hydraulics, Air Compressors (AUD—40) $6.95 
re 
House Heating Guide (AUD—41) $5.95 
i 
Milwrights & Mechanics Guide (AUD—42) $6.95 
Do-It-Yourself Encyclopedia 2 Vols. (AUD—43) $8.95 
Water Supply & Sewage Disposal Guide (AUD—46) $4 
Gas Engine Manual (AUD—48) $4 
Outboard Motor & Boating Guide (AUD—49) $4 
Encyclopedia of Space Science — 4 Vols. (AUD—50) set $19.95 
Domestic Compact Auto Repair Manual (AUD—52) $5.95 
Foreign Auto Repair Manual (AUD—53) $5 
Programmed Basic Electricity Course (AUD—54) $4 
Home Workshop & Tool Handy Book (AUD—55) $5 
° 
Home Modernizing & Repair Guide (AUD—56) $2.95 
Practical Chemistry for Everyone (AUD—57) $5.95 
Home Gas Heating and Appliance Manual (AUD—59) $3.50 
Practical Guide to Mechanics (AUD—61) $4 
l 
Practical Mathematics for Everyone — 2 Vols. (AUD—66) set $8.95 
Architects and Builders Guide (AUD—69) $4 
af 
Handbook of Commercial Sound Installations (AUD—92) $5.95 
— 
Practical Guide to Tape Recorders (AUD—93) $4.95 
Practical Guide to Auto Radio Repair (AUD—94) $4.50 
Practical Guide to Citizens Band Radio (AUD—95) °$4.95 
Practical Electronics Projects for the Beginner (AUD—96) $4.95 
Practical Guide to Servicing Electric Organs (AUD—97) $4.95 
Practical Guide to Building Maintenance (AUD—99) $4.95 
Practical Guide to Fluid Power (AUD—100) $6.95 
; 
Practical Science Projects in Electricity/Electronics (AUD—102) 
$4. 
Ae 
