and still beloved: 
How to Build Your Own Furniture 
Unlike most books on do-it-yourself furniture, How to Build 
Your Own Furniture by R. J. DeCristoforo contains no plans 
on how to build your own furniture. What it does contain is 
information on what should go into the design of a given 
piece of furniture to make it function properly. If you have 
ever built a table that wobbled or a drawer that wouldn’t 
open, you will appreciate this book. 
The book gives a wealth of information and illustrations on 
techniques and methods of quality furniture craftsmanship. 
There are chapters on materials and general design and 
construction with separate chapters on each of the different 
categories of furniture (such as tables, chairs, desks, chests, 
etc.). The book is very concise and the instructions and 
illustrations are easily understandable. 
This is definitel y 
a standard work for the designer-craftsman. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Lloyd Martin] 
How to Build Your Own Furnitur 
R. J. DeCristoforo 
} 
1965; 176 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Harper & Row 
49 East 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
t | 
pall 
L_] 
L] 
| 
_] 
t_ 
t_ 
L_] 
t 
Model & Allied Publications 
The British have good how-to books. MAP is a gathering 
of a passel of them. 
[Suggested by Dr. Morton Grosser] 
Catalog 
free 
from: 
Model & Allied Publications Ltd. 
13/35 Bridge Street 
Hemel Hampstead, Herts 
ENGLAND 
Creative Glass Blowing 
This well-illustrated and carefully written book begins with 
the statement “Any one can learn to blow glass.” Toa 
large extent, the authors, one of whom is a professional 
glass blower, succeed in making that statement believable. 
However, the first 50 pages are concerned with the tools 
of the glass blower and | found myself wondering, “Yes, 
but can anyone learn to be a pipe-fitter, metal worker, 
carpenter, and electrician?” If you can do those things, 
there is little doubt that this book (and several hundred 
dollars worth of tools and related supplies) will enable you 
to blow glass—probably creatively. 
Don’t expect to take up glass blowing casually, with just this 
- book, but if it is a hobby to which you can commit yourself 
seriously this book would be an excellent investment, for 
starters. 
There is a page at the end that lists sources of tools and 
materials. Unfortunately, there are only a few suppliers 
mentioned, all of whom are in the East. Alas, we westerners 
need a special supplement, obviously. 
[Reviewed by Richard Raymond] 
Creative Glass Blowin 
James E. Hammesfahr, Clair L. Stong 
1968; 196 pp. 
4 
from: 
$8.00 postpaid 
W. H. Freeman & Company 
660 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94104 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
 Whittling & Woodcarving 
! This book was originally published in 1936, but something 
about it suggests a product of the 19th century. It might 
 bear—unashamedly—the antiquated subtitle, 
A Compendium. 
!t is basically a book of instructions and illustrations (464 
Ll of them) about wood carving. Unlike most of the books on 
carving, it doesn’t discriminate between fine arts and folk 
pycraft. If you follow Tangerman’s instructions you can make 
anything from a willow whistle to a Renaissance balustrade. 
The first copy | came across was a tattered red hardbound, 
and when it disappeared from the elementary school 
library, | felt a sense of personal loss. In 1962 Dover 
LJ Publications reissued it in paperback for $2. 00, and if you 
carve (or would like to), it is a must for your library. 
Tangerman begins with some inspiring examples: no less 
[| than Grinling Gibbons and Tilman Riemenschneider. He 
gives a brief introduction to woods, knives and sharpening, 
and then begins at the bottom with rustic whittling. The 
mysteries of chains carved from a single block of wood and 
the ball-in-a-cage are clearly explained in text and drawings. 
L In about 300 pages you are led through chip carving, low 
relief, high relief, and sculpture in the round, and presum- 
L] ably a Jot of chips will have accumulated on the floor by the 
time you finish the book, At 54°x8%” it isn’t exactly 
[pocket sized, but it will fit in a handbag or a glove compart- 
ment with ease. The writing is enthusiastic; it can convince 
you that if you want to learn to carve, all you need is a 
sharp knife, a piece of wood, some bandaids, and 
Whittling and Woodcarving. 
a 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Dr. Morton Grosser] 
E. J. Pangersa 
" 
4 whittling 
and 
L 
W oodcarving 
() 
Whittling & Woodcarving 
from: 
E. J. Tangerman 
Dover Publications, Inc. 
1962; 293 pp. 
180 Varick Street 
New York, N. Y. 10014 
$2.00 postpaid 
* 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
=, New Science of Strong Materials 
Why does glass sometimes shatter and other times bend like 
a spring? A new field of science involves the study of 
materials as a whole, rather than in their special chemical, 
‘physical, and engineering aspects. Scientists have been 
investigating the atoms and molecules upon which the 
mechanical properties of materials depend, and this book 
is a clear explanation of some of the discoveries being 
made. Nothing beyond high school math, and a very 
palateble treatment of an exciting new science. 
[Suggested by Steve Baer. 
Reviewed by Lloyd Kahn] 
The first thing we discovered was that we could get high strength 
from almost anything from Epsom salts to sapphire. Provided it 
was in the form of a thin whisker, it did not matter what the 
chemical nature of the stuff was or by what method the whiskers 
were grown, We must have worked on well over a hundred 
different substances and there was absolutely no doubt about it. 
New Science of Strong Materials 
J. &. Gordon 
1968; 269 pp. 
$6.50 
from: 
Walker & Co. 
720 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
Previously listed in Industry and Craft 
is 
Classic Guitar Construction 
To build a decent classic guitar, you must make several. The 
first one should take at least six months in a well-equipped 
shop with controlled humidity. Special jigs and clamps are 
required, which you make yourself. The order of crafts- 
manship and musical sensitivity involved will keep the 
dilettante out of the picture. 
If you’ve gotten through those gates, then this is really how 
to do it, no jive. The text and illustrations (including 
patterns) are elegant, even inspiring. Sloane takes you 
through all the steps, no gaps, towards a superior 
instrument. 
Talk about sacred lines—that’s what a classic 
guitar is made of, It’s all conscious decision, a continuous 
dialogue with the universe. 
The book won’t talk you into or out of making a guitar. 
/f you’re the person, it’s your book. Follow Sloane’s 
recipe and the world will beat a path to your door. 
[Reviewed by Dave Guard] 
Classic Guitar Construction 
Irving Sloane 
1966; 95 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
E. P. Dutton 
201 Park Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
e-04 0-40-04 0-0 0-0 0-0] 0-0-0100] 0-0 ]+0-0_]+ 0-0 
Plastics 
How does a person who becomes interested in plastics find 
out all there is to know about plastics? One solution may be 
to spend the rest of your life walking from plastic company 
to plastic company finding out what each are doing. This 
would be OK if you were looking for something to do for a 
long period of time. But if you are longing for a compre- 
hensive review of the world of plastics and/or some good 
solid reference material on the subject, then | suggest the 
following three sources, 
One js: Plastics in the Modern World. /t is an interesting 
little Pelican Original pocket book by two Englishmen; 
E. G. Couzens and V. E. Yarsley. Part one contains: 
the 
Theory and Practice of Plastics which discusses the physical, 
chemical and behavioral aspects of plastics, while also 
explaining the manufacturing processes involved in 
plastics production, Part two of the book concerns itself 
with the domestic application of plastics and the utilization 
of plastics by industry, 
The Modern Plastics Encyclopedia comes with a subscription 
to Modern Plastics magazine, which is technically oriented 
and interestingly useful, The encyclopedia is by far the 
most comprehensive text available on the subject of 
plastics. It analyzes all available plastics, tells you what 
they can do and where you can get them. It describes the 
chemical structure of resins and moulding compounds, 
talks about what’s going on in the field of foamed plastics, 
and describes machinery and methods that are used and 
available in making products with plastics. Both the 
magazine and the encyclopedia have free product /iterature 
cards at the back of each copy. These can bring you a 
wealth of detailed information if you desire to study a 
specific situation very precisely. 
You can also circle all 
the numbers on the card and receive a deluge of mail. 
So have some fun. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Michael Rosenthal] 
Plastics in the Modern World 
E. G, Couzens, V. E. Yarsley 
1941, 1956, 1968; 386 pp. 
$1 .65 postpaid 
from: 
Pelican Books 
7110 Ambassador Road 
Baltimore, Md. 21207 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
in the Modest: 
E.G. Cousens 
Hes; 
cc 
# CO<CH, 
Modern Plastics 
(Magazine & Encyclopedia) 
$10.00 yr. (monthly) 
from: 
Modern Plastics 
Fulfillment Manager 
Hightstown, N. J. 08520 5 y 
P.O. Box 430 
