| 
OT ao ee 
POPP 
se 
Pat 
‘ 
ie 
_ Man and His Symbols 
_ Carl Jung did a nice thing just before he died. He helped 
_ with a British effort to bring all of his work together in 
‘one richly illustrated introduction to the breadth of his 
realm. This book covers his concepts of the unconscious, 
myths, individuation, the visual arts, dreams, and analysis. 
_ Why aren‘t all psychology books illustrated? 
Man and His Symbols 
Carl G. Jung 
1964; 320 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday & Co. 
- 5017 Franklin 
_ 
Garden City, N. Y. 11531 
on 
i il 
i 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOGE 
A still more subtle manifestation of a negative anima appears in some 
_ fairy tales in the form of a princess who asks her suitors to answer a 
_ series of riddles or, perhaps, to hide themselves under her nose. 
If 
they cannot give the answers, or if she can find them, they must die— 
and she invariably wins. The anima in this guise involves men ina 
_ He reflects about life so much that he cannot live it and loses all his 
_ spontaneity and outgoing feeling. 
_._ 
Oh, come, lonely hunter in the stillness of dusk. 
Come, come! 
| miss you, | miss you! 
Now | will embrace you, embrace you! 
Come, come! My nest is near, my nest is near. 
Come, come, lonely hunter, now in the stillness of dusk. 
He throws off his clothes and swims across the river, but suddenly. she 
_ 
flies away in the form of an owl, laughing mockingly at him. When he 
tries to swim back to find his clothes, he drowns in the cold river. 
DPRPPER ERED PEP PEEEEEE TET ET PEEP EE TT PT TFET TE ae 
ed 
_ The Unexpected Universe 
__ Loren Eiseley celebrates our grandest ignorances, the places 
__ in human experience where if you stare into them, the 
_ void stares back. City dumps; the open end of evolution; 
‘a the unexplored continent in your mind; stars; a Pharaoh’s 
_ dead gesture; edges of oceans. Strong useful prose from 
_an old guy who knows something clear and bleak about 
ee nection. 
at 
aaah 
The Unexpected Universe 
Loren Eiseley 
1969; 239 pp. 
$5.75 postpaid 
from: 
_ Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc. 
_ 757 Third Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
_ Around me in the gloom dark shapes worked ceaselessly at the 
dampened fires. My eyes were growing accustomed to their light. 
"We get it all,” the dump philosopher repeated. ‘‘Just give it 
time to travel, we get it all.” 
_ Men, unknowingly, and whether for good or ill, appear to be making 
their last decisions about human destiny. To pursue the biological 
analogy, it is as though, instead of many adaptive organisms, a 
__ single gigantic animal embodied the only organic future of the 
_ world. 
_ Every time we walk along a beach some ancient urge disturbs us 
so that we find ourselves shedding shoes and garments, or scavenging 
among seaweed and whitened timbers like the homesick refugees 
't was the failures who had always won, but by the time they won 
_ they had come to be called successes. This is the final paradox, 
Abb 
b tA 
LAA 
LALA 
A Add 
Ad 
ddd 
Abd 
Add 
A bd 
A bd 
Add 
db 
ddd 
ddd 
dd 
ddd 
ddd 
dd 
bd 
d 
destructive intellectual game. We can notice the effect of this anima 
__The sign is always less than the concept it represents, while a 
trick in all those neurotic pseudo-intellectual dialoques that inhibit 
symbol always stands for something more than its obvious and 
-aman from getting into direct touch with life and its real decisions. 
immediate meaning. 
i 
Abstract mandalas also appear in European Christian art. Some of the 
a SEA 
most splendid examples are the rose windows of the cathedrals. 
These are representations of the Self of man transposed onto the 
cosmic plane. (A cosmic mandala in the shape of a shining white 
rose was revealed to Dante in a vision.) We may regard as mandalas 
the haloes of Christ and the Christian saints in religious paintings. 
The archetypal sacred marriage (the union of opposites, of the 
male and female principles) represented here by a 19th-century 
Indian sculpture of the deities Siva and Parvati. 
A car is another kind of possession that is usually feminized— 
i.e., that can become the focus of many men’s anima projections. 
Like ships, cars are called ‘‘she,” and their owners caress and 
pamper them like favorite mistresses. 
If you feel an overwhelming rage coming up in you when a friend 
reproaches you about a fault, you can be fairly sure that at this 
point you will find a part of your shadow, of which you are 
unconscious. 
> * 
++ The King and the Corpse 
XN 
it ! know of no better myth-telling than this, and no better 
ye! myths. You’ve got Abu Kasem’s Slippers, and then 
~- Conn-eda and John Golden-Mouth, and four romances 
ah from King Arthur that take deeper turns than T. H. White, 
_the King and the Corpse, and the prize: the ancient 
Hindu Romance of the Goddess, plumbing the involuntary 
creation. Collected by Heinrich Zimmer, edited 
by Joseph 
Campbell. 
There’s few books with such a blend of 
extravagance and intelligence. 
[Suggested by Jim Fadiman] 
The King 
and the Corpse 
Heinrich 
Zimmer; Joseph Campbell, ed 
1948; 338 pp. 
$1 75 postpaid 
from: 
Meridian Books, Inc. 
World Publishing Co. 
2231 West 110th Street 
Cleveland, Ohio 44102 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
The involvement of the gods in the web of their own creation, 
so that they become, like Abu Kasem, the harried victims of 
their creatures, entangled in nets of not quite voluntary self- 
manifestation, and then mocked by the knowing laughter of their 
own externally reflected inner judge: 
this is the-miracle of the 
universe. This is the tragicomic romance of the world. The gods, 
the fairy powers, are always in danger of self-enchangment. 
Like 
the youth Narcissus, they become fixed to their own reflected 
images—momentarily reluctant to pass with the passing of time, 
and critically in need of the shocking, shattering blow of the 
redemptive catastrophe. Man is the little world creator; God, the 
great. Each, surrounded by the figments of his own mirrored depths, 
knows and suffers the cosmic self-torment. And the fatal power 
that enchants them both is ever the great goddess, Maya, self- 
delusion, the supreme creatrix of all the worlds. 
e 
Brahma, sinking still further into the limpid darkness of his own 
interior, struck a new depth: suddenly the most beautiful dark 
woman sprang from his vision, and stood naked before everyone’s 
gaze. 
She was Dawn, and she was radiant with vivid youth. Nothing like her 
had yet appeared among the gods; nor would her equal ever be 
seen, either among men, or in the depths of the waters in the 
jeweled palaces of the serpent queens and kings. The billows of 
her blue-black hair were glistening like the feathers of a peacock, 
and her clearly curving, dark brows formed a bowfit for 
jeweled palaces of the serpent queens and kings. The billows of 
her blue-black hair were glistening like the feathers of a peacock, 
and her clearly curving, dark brows formed a bow fit for the God 
of Love. 
Her eyes, like dark lotus calyxes, had the alert, questioning 
glance of the frightened gazelle; and her face, round as the moon, was 
like a purple lotus blossom. Her swelling breasts with their two 
dark points were enough to infatuate a saint. Trim as the shaft 
of a lance stood her body, and her smooth legs were like the stretched- 
out trunks of elephants. She was glowing with little delicate 
pearls of perspiration. And when she found herself in the midst of 
her startled audience, she stared about at them, in uncertainty, 
then broke into a softly rippling laugh. 
The course of the world runs awry, but therewith it goes directly 
to its goal. The catastrophe of the previously unforeseen is what 
breaks the world progression forward, and the moment the catastrophe 
has come to pass it appears to be what was intended all the while. 
For it is creative in a deeper way than the planning creative spirit 
supposes. 
It transforms the situation, forces an alteration on the 
creative spirit, and throws it into a play that carries it beyond itself. 
~t carries it, that is to say, really and properly into play, and into a 
~ play that entrains the entirety of creation. The planner, the watcher, is 
~; compelled to become the endurer, the sufferer. Such a metamorphosis 
“+ into the opposite, into the absolutely alien, is what throws the knots 
<=? that reticulate the net of the living whole and mesh the individual 
~~. alive into the fabric. 
ike 
® 
~b 
bbb 
bb 
bb 
bbb 
bd 
al 
ddl 
dA 
AAA 
ALAA 
ALAA 
AA 
AAA 
dd 
dl 
A AAA 
AAA 
ALAA 
AAA 
ddd 
ddA 
AAA 
AAA 
AA 
AAA 
edd 
deed 
+ Shiva’s visage became radiant with joy. In the presence of all 
a the Holy Ones he lapsed, absorbed, into introverted vision. Then 
—. he permitted himself to sink to the floor, legs crossed, shut his 
~t eyes, and sank into his being to the depth of the Being Sublime. 
Big His body began to glow, so that the eyes of all the Holy Ones 
+ present became dazzled. And the moment he reached quietude 
=f in this immersion, Vishnu’s Maya fell away from around him, 
and his entire body burst into such a radiance that even his own 
+ hosts were unable to bear the blast. Vishnu passed into him, 
<= poured into him as the pure Light of Heaven, and disclosed 
~ within Shiva’s body, to the eye of his inner contemplation, the 
+ whole lotus-spectacle of creation and the procession of the world. 
—+ Blissful and serene, beyond the senses and their universes of 
When an individual makes an attempt to see his shadow, he becomes + distinctions, alon 
. 
: 
aug 
Pa 
heh 
i 
e and 
pure, beholding 
everything, the abstracted 
aware of (and often ashamed of) those qualities and impulses he 
As 
e 
9 
us 
9 
denies in himself but can plainly see in other people... 
ft One experienced within his own being the Being Supreme, that Sub- 
stratum of all Unfoldments. He beheld, riveted in contemplation, how 
~ the One Substance exfoliates into all the delectations of the world. 
Shiva, bereaved, distracted, was conducted gently by his guru, 
Brahma, out of the gates of the city of his life’s loss and away into 
the Himalayan peaks of snow. There, walking together, the two 
came upon a little lake of solitude, clear, and delightful to the 
mind. Brahma perceived it first. 
And seated here and there about the quiet shores were saints 
and sages in absolute meditation; two or three stood bathing 
—~} in the cool crystal waters, sending ripples out across its mirroring 
+ of the blue and immobile, high, mountain sky. Many migratory 
ty birds, shrilly crying, were coming from all directions to flutter 
~; down into its lotus-bordered waters—pairs of splendid ruddy geese 
+ beautifully spreading out their great wings in exultation, 
~{ cormorants with their hooked bills, gray-winged geese, and 
~ Siberian cranes, stalking about the shores, floating on the surface 
>t of the lake, peering into the waters, themselves beautifully 
~ reflected—and, occasionally, with a sudden thunderous beating of 
~~: hundreds of wings, all lifting out of the lake into the sky, to circle 
>t in many companies. and presently return to settle, flutter, and 
preen. And beneath them, in the crystalline depths, 
~~}. were swimming fish of innumerable brilliant hues, 
+t visible as they darted in and out among the lotus 
stems. 
Lotus buds, lotus chalices; blue lotuses and 
—, white were abundant there; and the vegetation about 
+ the shores was luxurious and of coo! shade. 
bb 
bddbddddddd 
