* 
Plans and the Structure of Behavior 
What | know is that this book and the one to our right 
(Act of Creation) taught me most of what | know about 
using my 
head. 
The result of a year-long conversation by the authors in 
California in 1958-59, the book discards Stimulus-Response 
psychology (which never helped my head, or probably 
anybody’s) and wades into cybernetics instead. 
The book 
is cheerful, if academicky. From it the notion of being 
programmed, and self-programming, emerges as a con- 
venience rather than a threat. 
That Plans (programs) 
operate hierarchically rather than single-file is clearly an 
enormous saving in trouble and trivia. The constant checking 
of feedback loops (called TOTE units) yields a nice 
connectedness to the environment. 
The consideration of 
contradictory or interrupted Plans gives insight into the uses 
and misuses of frustration. A handy book, this, of simple 
concepts for understanding the subtle realm. 
[Suggested by Preston Cutler] 
Plans and the Structure of Behavior 
George A. Miller, Eugene Galanter, Karl H. Pribram 
1960; 226 pp. 
$8.50 
from: 
s 
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc. 
Postpaid 
383 Madison Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
As you brush your teeth you decide that you will answer that pile of 
letters you have been neglecting. That is enough. You-do not need 
to list the names of the people or to draft an out line of the contents 
of the letters. You think simply that today there will be time for it 
after lunch. After lunch, if you remember, you turn to the letters. 
You take one and read it. You plan your answer. You may need to 
check on some information, you dictate or type or scribble a reply, 
you address an envelope, seal the folded letter, find a stamp, drop 
it in a mailbox. Each of these subactivities runs off as the situation 
arises—you did not need to enumerate them while you were 
planning the day. All you need is the name of the activity that 
you plan for that segment of the day, and from that name you 
then proceed to elaborate the detailed actions involved in carrying 
out the pian. 
* 
The Five Ages of Man 
Educational theory presumes that cognitive and intellectual 
and “social” development is about all that can or need be 
dealt with in the schools, and the schools act accordingly. 
Gerald Heard (scarcely mentioning schools) investigates 
a deeper education, namely emotional human development 
both in history and in the individual. 
His effort is to recognize 
and honor the various stages of people’s relation to their own 
energies, and recognize and honor the requirement of 
recurrent further growth, and recognize and assist the hard 
transitions from one stage to the next. 
His notion spreads out like this: 
Historical stages 
Personal stages 
(5 crises) 
(5 ordeals) 
Coconscious man 
Birth trauma 
Heroic, self-assertive man 
Childhood (becoming paranoia) 
Ascetic, self-accusing man 
Adolescence (schizophrenia) 
Humanic, self-sufficient man 
First maturity (manic depression) 
Leptoid, post-individual man 
Second maturity-(involuntary melancholy) 
; 
; 
‘ty 
A te A 
—Planning can be thought of as constructing alistofteststo 
== 
perform. When we have a clear Image of a desired outcome, we 
can use it to provide the conditions for which we must test, and 
those tests, when arranged in sequence, provide a crude strategy _ 
for a possible Plan. (Perhaps it would be more helpful to say that 
the conditions for which we must test are an Image of the desired 
__ 
outcome.) 
Plan. When we speak of a Plan in these pages, however, the 
term will refer to a hierarchy of instructions, and the capitalization 
will indicate that this special interpretation is intended. A Plan is 
any hierarchical process in the organism that can control the 
order in which a sequence of operations is to be performed. 
A Plan is, for an organism, essentially the same as a program for 
a computer, especially if the program has the sort of hierarchical 
character described above. ... 
Execution. We shall say that a creature is executing a particular 
Plan when in fact that Plan is controlling the sequence of operations 
he is carrying out. When an organism executes a Plan he proceeds 
through it step by step, completing one part and then moving to the 
next. The execution of a Plan need not result in overt action— 
especially in man, it seems to be true that there are Plans for 
collecting or transforming information, as well as Plans for guiding | 
actions. Although it is not actually necessary, we assume On intuitive 
grounds that only one Plan is executed at a time, although relatively 
rapid alternation between Plans may be possible. An organism may— 
probably does—store many Plans other than the ones it happens to be 
executing at the moment. 
We see, therefore, that a person who is caught between conflicting ues 
Plans is in a somewhat different situation from the person caught 
between conflicting motives. He is almost necessarily unaware 
that his Plans conflict, whereas he may be painfully conscious of 
his incompatible desires. There is almost certain to be a large 
penumbra of confusion surrounding the incompatible Plans; 
the person seems to be deliberately frustrating himself, but cannot 
discover why. He knows something is wrong, but cannot discover 
what it is. The two Plans may be isolated from one another in 
Po! 
such a way that it never occurs to the person to contrast one with 
the other. 
Human institutions exist primarily for the purpose of executing 
plans that their members, as individuals, would be unable or 
‘ai 
unwilling to execute. When the plans that form their_raison d'etre 
are taken away—finished, frustrated, outlawed, outgrown, completed, — 
whatever—the group may disband. Sometimes they may hold reunions — 
to swim in an ocean of emotion, but then they have become social 
_ 
groups with corresponding changes in the plans they execute. But 
many planless groups disappear and are never heard from again. 
- In this respect groups are like computers, 90 percent plan and 10 — 
percent image. Individuals, on the other hand are about 75 percent 
— 
Image and 25 Percent Plan. 
. 
ny 
image. The !mage is all the accumulated, organized knowledge that 
the organism has about itself and its world. The Image consists 
of a great deal more than imagery, of course. What we have in mind 
when we use this term is essentially the same kind of private repre- 
sentation that other cognitive theorists have demanded. 
It includes 
everything the organism has learned—his values as well as his facts— 
organized by whatever concepts, images, or relations he has been 
able to master... . 
The central problem of this book is to explore the relation between 
the Image and the Plan. 
® 
+ 
If this description of hammering is correct, we should expect the 
sequence of events to run off in this order: Test nail. (Head 
sticks up.) Test hammer. (Hammer is down.) 
Lift hammer. 
Test hammer. (Hammer is up.) Test hammer. (Hammer is up.) 
Strike nail. Test hammer. (Hammer is down.) Test nail. (Head 
sticks up.) Test hammer. And so on, until the test of the nail 
reveals that its head is flush with the surface of the work, at 
which point control can be transferred elsewhere. Thus the 
compound of TOTE [Test-Operate-Test-Exit] units unravels 
itself simply enough into a coordinated sequence of tests and 
actions, although the underlying structure that organizes and 
coordinates the behavior is itself hierarchical, not sequential. 
The means-ends analysis runs something like this: 
First, see if 
you know any way to transform the given into the desired 
solution. 
If no way.is known, then try to reduce the difference 
between them; find some transformation that reduces the 
difference, and then apply it. Then try the first step again— 
see if you know any way to transform the new version of the 
given into the desired solution. 
If not, search again for a way to 
reduce the difference, etc. Each time the difference is reduced, the 
problem gets a little easier to solve. 
A second very general system of heuristic used by Newell, Shaw, 
and Simon consists in omitting certain details of the problem. 
ae 
This usually simplifies the task and the simplified problem may be 
solved by some familiar plan. The plan used to solve the simple 
— 
problem is then used as the strategy for solving the original, 
complicated problem. 
% 
The bigger logs, ablaze but not yet broken up by the fire, were arranged — 
crosswise in the trench,-above the bed of flame made by the pieces that 
had broken down into small brands and bright charcoal. Soakind of 
cattle-guard or corduroy walk was made, through which grate or grill 
the flames rose. The priest with the wands, who had sat before the fire 
while it was being lit and brought to full conflagration, had now moved 
and sat at one end of the trench with an assistant seated at the other. 
They stayed sitting like this for a few moments, after which all was 
ready for the therapy. The first to walk the length of the trench was one 
of the chief priests. By then a considerable portion of the lay congregation 
— 
had been brought near and lined up. Old people, the middle-aged, and 
youngsters—between seventy-five and one hundred persons went along ae 
the trench. 
Dr. Campbell himself went in his turn. He reports, “I 
deliberately stepped on some nice fat flames, smelled the hair burning oF 
my legs but found the flames were cpol. When | put on my socks again 
| found that my right ankle, which had been swollen and sore from a — 
strain acquired at Ankor Vat some weeks before, had gone down to ‘we 
normal and no longer hurt. The next day | walked some nine or ten 
miles and the ankle was still OK. The skin of my feet had not been 
— 
damaged in the least—not even reddened by the flames... .” 
— 
; 
Ben 
e 
A meteorologist friend of Jellinek’s, caught in a thunderstorm on 
a Swiss peak, used the method. Having braced himself against the 
; 
_ 
possibility of being struck, he was hit three times by lightning. But — 
“_ although his clothes were torn and his skin broken, because he was 
— 
prepared he was neither stunned nor did he suffer anything but the 
— 
surface abrasions. 
: 
; 
[Initiations 
(5 mysteries) 
Rebirth (Earth) 
Catharsis (Water) 
Inspiration (air) 
{lumination (fire) 
Transformation (electricity) 
What emerges from all this is pretty radical education. 
Depending on where a person is hung up, you ritually 
bury him, or half drown him, or gas him, or burn him, or 
send electricity through him. Mr. Heard has done much of 
this to himself and speaks well of the effects. | believe it. 
Rites of passage are rare these days, and mostly fumbled 
when they occur. 
/t would be nice to know what's going 
on and be able to get some help when spontaneous meta- 
morphosis has you spinning. 
It is now clear that before historic record, but well illustrated by superb 
pictures, there was a culture that was preindividualistic and to some extent 
coconscious because it was under a comprehensive suggestion by imposed 
interpretation and rule. And even today there are fragmentary societies 
which (as in Australia and Papua) still seem to preserve much of the 
same cohesion and precritical amalgamation of psychological value and 
economic profit. Secondly, there is the Heroic Age, which helped to 
destroy the preindividual condition and which is itself only protoindividual; 
only crudely critical of the old order; childishly ignorant of its own 
weakness and faults; boastful, displayful, and un-self-conscious in any 
sense of objective awareness. 
It did not understand, it simply reacted. 
Thirdly, this second stage is succeeded by one of self-questioning and 
criticism that produces a desire for self-improvement, self-discipline, and 
finally self-reduction. Then, with struggle, this ascetic, midindividualistic 
condition passes into the fourth stage when individualism attains 
totality. At first, man’s self-consciousness made him criticize only the 
tradition-bound group. Then it made him criticize himself. And now, 
in his complete self-confidence, he no longer sees any need either for 
boast and shame or for guilt and gratitude. He sees himself as neither 
condemning nor approving, as being the flawless mirror of the world 
Says Heard, if we tend properly to all the transitions, we 
will enable old people to be useful and growing, as seers. 
Gerald Heard is 80. 
[Suggested by Peter Douthit] 
The Five Ages of Man 
Gerald Hear 
from: 
that is as orderly (and so as repetitively aimless) as he is rational and 
1963; 393 pp. 
Julian Press 
inventively comprehending. 
‘ 
119 Fifth Avenue 
$8.50 postpaid 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
These four phases have therefore given rise to four distinctive types: 
(1) the nonpersonal group constituent, (2) the hero, (3) the ascetic 
and (4) the humanic. And that, until the beginning of this century, 
seemed to be the culminant end of the story. 
Briefly, then, this is the thesis of this book: man can train himself, 
and he has done so with increasing understanding. Although at first 
this training was implicit in a rite that worked without being 
consciously comprehended and, next, it was esoteric and a mystery 
understood only by psychophysical.pioneers, today it can become 
explicitly exoteric, rendered in contemporary terms and applied with 
scientific exactitude and as a therapeutic education. Such an education 
can fully develop both an entire person and a complete society. 
It 
can produce a constituent able to accept and fulfill his whole personal 
process and also be the conscious, willing, and developmental unit of a 
civilization that is creatively run by a common consent and coterminous 
with a nonviolent mankind. 
124 
For three reasons a specific treatment is required for the present 
dominant type, the totally self-conscious man, the person of first 
maturity. 
(1) Cut off from his own deep, intuitional mind, he must 
suffer increasingly from a subconscious anxiety. (2) Cut off from 
interior knowledge of his own body and function rhythms, he must 
be increasingly attacked by psychosomatic illness. 
(3) Cut off, 
psychologically, from the society whose granulation into separate 
Fe 
cells he acutely expresses and coercively commands, he must create 
an international anarchy. 
The emergence of second maturity, the large class of healthy grandparet 
can be understood and be availed of only if we see that this fifth ph 
is inevitable; that it is the essential. requirement for the manning o' 
} 
fifth category of mankind, the fifth ageof manasaraceandasa 
person. 
Ys 
Now, with old. age and at the upper end, Nature restores freedom of 
~ 
choice and permits, once again, that rightful irresponsibility to enquire 
and explore regardless of consequences. Being relieved of the armor 
of authority and the enforcement instruments of command, those 
second maturity are once more at liberty to enquire rather than to ~ 
order, and to question rather than reply. 
ae 
Second maturity is a return to a regeneralized outlook emotionally ; 
intellectually, 
a resumption of generalized response. Hence, it can be 
the state in which it would be natural for the capacity of seership to ¥ 
be attained, to re-emerge. And, with that capacity, to regain a generali 
affection, good will, and anxiety-free concern and vision into the n 
time that would explicate death by uniting the mind with eternal lif 
immersian, naked and in a tankof circulating water keptat body 
temperature, and wherein the body would be irrigated exteriorly and 
— 
interiorly. The eyes could see, through a glass visor, the water-suffused 
and wavering light that should probably also have rhythmic light — 
patterns given it by the use of a stroboscope. Theear shouldbe 
= 
vibrated by sound rhythms of a comparable frequency. sent through 
water, which is a better sound-carrying medium than air. Inthis 
= 
medium and state the postulant should first be floated. But after ten 
minutes the water in the tank would be made to begin a pulsing, vo! 
movement. And against this whirlpool he would have to struggle unt 
exhausted. At this point he should achieve a further loss of self; 
‘3 
he should emerge into an enlarged state of consciousness. 
a 
~ 
<ha 
my ae 
