The Year 2000 
ls Herman Kahn the bad guy (as liberal opinion would have 
it) or a good guy (as in some informed opinion)? Kahn will 
hang you on that question and while you're hanging jam infor- 
mation and scalding notions into your ambivalence. He does 
this best with a live audience, but this book is a fine callec- 
tion of the information he uses. 
Here is most of the now-basic methodology of future study— 
multi-fold trends, surprise-free projections, scenarios, etc. 
And here are their results. 
It’s the best future-book of the 
several that are out. 
In my opinion, it is not particularly an accurate picture of 
the future but the most thorough picture we have of the 
present—the present statistics, present fantasies, present ex- 
pectations that we’re planning with. We are what we think 
our future is. 
\f computer capacities were to continue to increase by a factor of ten 
every two or three years until the end of the century (a factor between 
a hundred billion and ten quadrillion), then all current concepts about 
computer limitations will have to be reconsidered. 
Even if the trend 
continues for only the next decade or two, the improvements over 
current computers would be factors of thousands ot millions. 
If we 
add the likely enormous improvements in input-output devices, pro- 
gramming and problem formulation, and better understanding of the 
basic phenomena being studied, manipulated, or simulated, these esti- 
mates of improvement may be wildly conservative. And even if the 
rate of change slows down by several factors, there would still be room 
in the next thirty-three years for an overall improvement of some five 
to ten orders of magnitude. Therefore, it is necessary to be skeptical 
of any sweeping but often meaningless or nonrigorous statements such 
as ‘a computer is limited by the designer—it cannot create anything he 
does not put in,” or that ‘a computer cannot be truly creative or 
original.’’ By the year 2000, computers are likely to match, simulate, 
or surpass some of man’s most ’’*human-like’’ intellectual abilities, 
including perhaps some of his aesthetic and creative capacities, in ad- 
dition to having some new kinds of capabilities that human beings do 
not have. These computer capacities are not certain; however, it is an 
Open question what inherent limitations computers have. 
If it turns 
out that they cannot duplicate or exceed certain characteristically 
human capabilities, that will be one of the most important discoveries 
of the twentieth century. 
The Year 2000 
Herman Kahn and Anthony J. Wiener 
1967; 431 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid 
from: 
The Macmillan Company 
Front and Brown Streets 
New Jersey 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
. 
MAA 
47, 
zs 
7 
a 
ANG) a 
The View from the Barrio 
What a refreshment this book was after reading a handful of 
“future” books—scholarly radical technological inflated 
prophetic advice gas—which left me with a depressed 
feeling that the future is just words. 
The real future will be made of much that is reported in 
this book (and approximately unknown to the scholars). 
Namely rural Third World people in newly rich economies 
and new planned cities, subverting the planners and 
transforming their own lives. 
La Laja is a barrio in the planned Venezuelan city of Ciudad 
Guayana. Dr. Peattie was there for 2% years with her 
family, taking part in barrio life and paying structured 
attention to what was going on. Social life around her was 
loose, fluid to a swiftly changing environment and economy. 
People were self-organizing only around critical community 
issues such as water or sewers. From the barrio it was a 
huge impassable distance to the planners, so when something 
came down that was intolerable they would beef futilely 
for a while and then plant dynamite under it. Nothing 
romantic. Just making do, getting by. 
/t sure dynamited my depression. 
Under that wide sky’s bow! of light the new roads and new 
concrete buildings—rows of developer houses, apartment 
buildings, commercial structures—seem to erupt from the 
dusty-dry earth which bulldozers have scraped clear of 
vegetation. Elsewhere, the improvised housing of the poor, 
of sheet aluminum or pressed-board;tooks as if it had been 
thrown together by a hurricane. 
It is a city of bulldozers, of 
engineers who wear boots and dungarees and carry shiny 
briefcases, of noisy bars and holes in the streets, and of new 
traffic interchanges; it is a city of building and of disorderly 
entrepreneurship; it is a city which lives in the future. 
A typical La Laja house represents in its physical arrangements a 
kind of gradient from the more public front to the more private 
back, which is at the same time a gradient of relative orientation 
to the urban, commercial economy and to the more traditional 
and rural. The plastic-upholstered living-room set and the artificial 
flowers in a plaster vase are part of that same world which women 
express in their urbanized style of dress and hairdos. The kitchen 
with its earth floor and deal table heaped with drying dishes, its 
hammock in the corner, is a residue of that world from which 
this people is in the process of emergence. The transformation 
of one into the other has already gone far; for example, in La Laja 
the large “showpiece” stove is beginning to invade some kitchens, 
and almost everywhere, even among poorer families, plastic 
and enamelware have replaced the calabash and hollowed wood 
tub of the traditional countryside. 
1. Per capita income about fifty times the preindustrial 
: 
. Most “economic” activities are tertiary and quaternary (service-oriented), 
N 
WAWBRwW 
Riverside, Burlington County 
Another part of La Laja’s natural environment consists of the strip 
of unimproved land just beyond the Iron Mines fence. This land, 
covered with brush and cactus, is often used for toileting, 
especially by children; debris may be dumped there, and children 
collect certain wild fruits in the brush. Some medicinal plants 
(from an extensive folk pharmacopeia of herbal remedies) are 
collected there by adults. Some men of the barrio shoot birds in 
this piece of monte. Boys hunt birds and sometimes rats with 
stones, either thrown.or projected with a sling shot; their 
accuracy is astonishing Dy, American standards. 
. There may be more “‘consentives” (vs. ““marketives”) 
. Effective floor on income and welfare 
. Efficiency no longer primary 
. Widespread “cybernation” 
. “Small world” 
. Typical “doubling time” between three and thirty years 
. Learning society 
. Rapid improvement in educational institutions and techniques 
: 
. Erosion 
(in middle 
class) 
of work-oriented, 
achievement-oriented, 
ad- : 
. Erosion of “national interest” values 
. Sensate, secular, humanist, perhaps self-indulgent criteria become central 
= 
The Futurist 
any 
In part because the Future is a new field of methodic study 
this is a lively newsletter. /t reports bi-monthly on new 
— 
books and programs having anything to do with social fore- 
_ 
casting. Future study is like education: everybody thinks 
they’re good at it. The newsletter has some of that diluted 
flavor, but it doesn’t matter. Useful pointing at useful 
activities done here. 
Pag 
World Future Society 
P.O. Box 19285 
20th Street Station 
— 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
A FRAMEWORK 
FOR SPECULATION ON 
THE NEXT THIRTY-THREE YEARS 
ANA 
Nn 
Abia 
4 v 
an 
The Futurist 
$5.00 for one year.. 
pain’ 
Demonstrating the new techniques of the 
think tanks, this book projects what our 
‘own world mast probably will 
tbe like a generation from now— 
and gives alternatives. 
by HERMAN KAHN 
and ANTHONY J. WIENER 
Introduction by DANIEL BELL 
Hides Rie Ivete 
“FUTURIST 
TABLE 
IX 
The Postindustrial (or Post-Mass Consumption) Society 
rather than primary or secondary (production-oriented ) 
Business firms no longer the major source of innovation 
Market plays diminished rolé compared to public sector and “social 
accounts” 
the Honk Bund to Ueopies 
The Haruepowe Exphesion 
WAAR AL 
AAD 
One of the things which gives life in Ciudad 
s< Guayama its particular dynamism is the fact 
that its participants know themselves to be 
part of history. |f people in the city, if the 
= residents of La Laja often speak, as they do, 
of ‘the future,”’ in a general sense aside from 
their own personal prospects, it is because the world has changed 
eN 
so rapidly in their own lifetimes that they are unable to perceive 
; 
the past as more than a series of events, as representing historical 
process, continuing into a future. 
vancement-oriented values 
AOR WS 
i 
=o 
_ 
RY 
AANA 
The roads, radios, and schools financed by oil meant not only a 
sharp rise in literacy—illiteracy dropped from 71 per cent in 1936 
to an estimated 26 to 28 percent in 1960—but also a general spread 
of sophistication of several kinds. There was sophistication in 
self-presentation; | have seen girls in isolated rural! settlements to 
j 
the south of Ciudad Guayana wearing tight slacks and upswept 
= 
hairdos in completely urban style. 
The bar is the most impressive business in La Laja. None of La 
Laja’s businesses is of a volume to be “really”’ profitable; they 
continue in terms of a situation in which the opportunity cost to the’ 
entrepreneur is, in effect, zero. Meanwhile, observations would 
suggest that they are perpetuated not only by the tiny incomes they 
supply but as much or more by a sort of return not easily entered 
on a bookkeeper’s balance sheet: the pleasure of social interaction 
and the self-esteem which comes from having a visible capital and 
from exercising the skills of entrepreneurship. 
e 
The community does not have to act as a whole to initiate 
procedures for solving some general problems; all it takesis a 
sufficiently active and influential working segment. Two men 
build a playground; ten sign a petition; three go to put pressure 
on the municipal council; thirty lay a water line. An undue stress 
on developing organization “‘representing the whole community” 
may actually make it harder to get things done by forcing 
individuals to choose sides, rather than choosing between action 
and inaction in a given enterprise. 
The general development planning and urban design functions 
of the CVG were being carried out far away from the people of 
La Laja, on the thirteenth floor of the Shell Building, 350 miles 
away in Caracas. Some individuals in San Félix—the priests, 
certain political and economic leaders—from time to time made 
visits to these offices, 
but to my knowledge no resident of La Laja 
had ever been there, and certainly the overwhelming majority had 
no conception of that far-off world in which La Laja appeared on 
maps as an area encircled by the planners’ ‘Magic Marker” or zipatone 
symbols. 
In looking at the history of the sewer controversy, 
it is clear that 
there were at least three major barriers to the communication of 
concerns from the people at the bottom to the ‘“competent 
‘ 
authorities’ at the top of the system. These barriers to communication — 
| suppose to be characteristic not only of the Corporacion de 
y 
Guayana, but also of other agencies in Venezuela, and not only of 
agencies in Venezuela, but of bureaucratic systems in similar soci- 
eties around the world. These barriers to communication impinge on 
“the people” as lack of knowledge of the power structure, inaccessi- 
bility of the power structure in terms of time, distance, and financial 
__ 
cost, and social class barriers. | was very useful to the people of 
Y 
La Laja in dealing with all three classes of barriers. 
‘ 
© 
There is no one who is making his political capital out of the 
satisfactions and dissatisfactions at the barrio level except very local 
politicians, and the structure of institutions which would amalgamate 
— 
these little local stocks of political capital into some sort of national 
— 
party fund of support is still undeveloped. 
; 
The View from the Barrio 
Lisa Redfield Peattie 
1968; 147 pp. 
$6.95 postpaid 
from: 
The University of Michigan Press 
615 East University 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106 
In this institutional context, the propensity to violence in Venezueal 
becomes understandable. 
It is like the steam which cracks the closed 
boiler; it is a way of expressing dissatisfaction in a society which lacks 
the channels, the institutions, for protesting legally in any effective 
, 
way. So first one puts up a sign by the highway or uses the radio to 
direct the attention of the ‘competent authorities” to the problem and 
__ 
then, if still feeling strongly, one looks for dynamite. 
— 
Wye 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
