k hg 
1 he Lives of Children 
* 
F or 
some months, when speaking to teachers or to anyone 
else concerned with education, | have said that while there 
were many recently published books on education (my own 
among them) that | thought they should read, if they felt 
ey had time for only one it should be The Lives of Children. 
is by far the most perceptive, moving, and important. 
90k on education that | have ever read, or indeed ever 
expect to. For while | hope that in years to come we may 
learn much about human growth and development that we 
do not now know, | doubt that any one book will advance 
our understanding as much as this one. 
It describes the lives of twenty-three children in the small 
private school in New York in which Dennison taught, 
and which has since been disbanded. They were black, 
white, and Puerto Rican in equal proportions. All were 
poor, half were on welfare, and about half “had come to 
us from the public schools with severe learning and 
behavior problems.” ... This school, spending no more 
“money per pupil than the city’s public schools, did not fail. 
The children got well, grew, learned. 
[Suggested and reviewed by John Holt. This review is 
lexcerpted, at John Holt’s request, from his review in 
Oct 9N. Y. Review of Books./ 
7 he Lives of Children 
George Dennison 
1969; 308 pp. 
$ 
6.95 
postpaid 
from: 
‘ 
Random House, Inc. 
201 East 50th Street 
New York, N. ¥Y. 10022 
rive of 
children 
George Dennison 
aK 
és 
“0 
gay 
i 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
¥ 
Ree 
a 
RR 
RAR LARA RRA AERA AEE 
E ERLE 
SEES 
Dibs in Search of Self 
Could this five year old child who “crawled around the 
edge of the room, lurking under tables, rocking back and 
forth, chewing on the side of his hand, sucking his thumb, 
lying prone and rigid on the floor when any 
of the teachers 
or children tried to involve him in some activity” actually 
be precocious? Could his teachers be right in their hunch 
that his behavior was too inconsistent to be the result of 
‘mental retardation? How could the tense secretive 
attitudes of his wealthy professional parents help explain 
Dibs’ cultivation of such protective walls against the 
world? Could anyone help? 
Pe 
PERE 
PREMIER 
ETRE 
RE 
ES, 
an 
wea Fh 
efits 
Dr. Axline’s edited transcripts 
of the play therapy she 
used with Dibs is a mo ving fascinating chronicle. And 
D Dibs— what a gutsy, amazing child! 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Carol Guyton Goodell] 
Dibs in Search of Self 
Virginia M. Axline 
1964; 220 pp. 
$.75 postpaid 
SPEND 
EPA 
TEET: 
eS 
re, 
from: 
Ba 
Ballantine Books 
Be 
101 Fifth Avenue 
ea 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
ae 
: 
OF 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG ¥ 
ee 
5 
"Oh," | said. ‘‘Well, the furnace i is out of order today. The 
. 
men are down there fixing it.” 
_ “What is wrong with it?’ Dibs asked. 
~ 
“1 don't know,” | replied. 
“You could find out, you know,” he said, after a short 
interval. 
“| could? How?” 
-“You could go down in the basement and hang around out 
of the way on the edge of things close enough to watch them 
and hear what they have to say,” he told me. 
“| expect | could,” | replied. 
_ 
“Then why didn’t you?” he asked. 
“To tell you the truth, Dibs,” | replied, “It had not occurred 
to )me to do that.” 
"You can learn lots of interesting things that way,” he said. 
“I'm sure of that,”’ | told him. And | was just as sure that 
Dibs had learned many, many things in that manner, hanging around, 
t of the way, on the edge of things, close enough to watch 
ople and hear what they had to say. 
¥ 
a 
e 
my opinion, the therapeutic value of this kind of psychotherapy 
sed upon the child’s experiencing himself as a capable, res- 
ible person in a relationship that tries to communicate to him 
two basic truths: that no one ever really knows as much about 
human being’s inner world as does the individual himself; and 
that responsible freedom grows and develops from inside the 
rson. The child must first learn self-respect and a sense of 
jnity that grows out of his increasing self-understanding before 
el 
learn to respect the personalities and rights and differences 
ers. 
fe 
ee 
a 
Gee eee 
L EEE ERLE 
E EERE E ECE 
E RELIES 
5 Hikari FEAR 
INR YRS EERE 
. [the children’s] self interest will lead them into positive 
relations with the natural authority of adults, and this is 
much to be desired, for natural authority is a far cry from 
authority that is merely arbitrary. 
|ts attributes are obvious: 
adults are larger, are experienced, possess more words, have 
entered into prior agreements among themselves... 
. 
When all this takes on a positive instead of a merely negative 
character, the children see the adults as protectors and as sources 
of certitude, approval, novelty, skills. 
In the fact that adults 
have entered into prior agreements, children intuit a seriousness 
and a web of relations in the life that surrounds them. ... These 
two things, taken together—the natural authority of adults and 
the needs of children—are the great reservoir of the organic 
structuring that comes into being when arbitrary rules of order 
are dispensed with. 
Here we come to one of the really damaging myths of education, 
namely, that learning is the result of teaching, that the progress 
of the child bears a direct relation to methods of instruction and 
the internal relationships of curriculum . . 
. To cite these as the 
effective causes of learning is wrong. The causes are in the child. 
When we consider the powers of mind of a healthy eight-year-old 
—the avidity of the senses, the finesse and energy of observation, 
the effortless concentration, the voracious memory—we realise 
immediately that these powers possess true magnitude in the 
general scale of things. ... Why is it, then, that so many children 
° 
fail? Let me put it bluntly; it is because our system of public 
education is a horrendous, life-destroying mess. 
i * 
¥ 
os 
‘a 
ae 
> 
There is no such thing as learning (as Dewey tells us) except in 
the continuum of experience. But this continuum cannot survive 
in the classroom unless there is reality of encounter between the 
adults and the children. The teachers must be themselves, not 
play roles. They must teach the child, and not teach ‘‘subjects.”” 
. The continuum of experience and reality of encounter are 
destroyed in the public schools (and most private ones) by the 
very methods which form the institution itself... 
Fy 
Push Back the Desks 
Every effective tedcher has had projects and ideas which 
really turned kids on, but most of them don’t take the time 
to write about just what it is that makes their classes 
remembered by former students as ‘one of the best years 
ever.’ Albert Cullum did, and his enthusiasm and involve- 
ment with his class of elementary kids over a twenty-year 
span spill over to the reader in a veritable flood of ideas, 
theories, and teacher war stories. He is explicit enough 
about his projects to make them instantly available to any 
admirer, but the major strength of the book is its ability to 
awaken a hundred or so related ideas in the teachers Who 
read it. It is teachers like Mr. Cullum who epitomize the best’ 
aspects and possibilities of the self-contained classroom for 
elementary school children. 
Sete. 
ae 
Sef 
EEhrIRKRiAnp 
Ieper 
t 
[Suggested and reviewed De 
Carol Guyton Goodel|/] 
Push Back the Desks 
Albert Cullum 
1967; 223 pp. 
$2.50 postpaid 
from: 
from: 
Four Winds Press 
50 West 44th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10036 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
| have found that children are interested in two things—doing and 
doing now. Children are looking for the unexpected, not the safe; 
children are looking for noise and laughter, not quiet; children are 
looking for the heroic, not the common. 
e 
Shakespeare may be for scholars to debate and discuss and philoso- 
= 
phize over, but he is also for Corky, a fifth-grader who died beautifully § 
as Julius Caesar. There are ‘murderers’ galore in the elementary 
s 
schools ready to help Macbeth kill Banquo; many a fifth- and sixth- 
grade girl can really whip up a moment of insanity as Ophelia. 
Jose’s reading problem is Jose. Or to put it another way, there 
is no such thing as a reading problem. Jose hates books, schools, 
and teachers, and among a hundred other insufficiencies—all of 
a 
piece—he cannot read. 
|s this a reading problem? 
A reading problem, in short, is not a fact of life, but a fact of 
school administration. 
It does not describe Jose, but describes the 
action performed by the school, i.e., the action of ignoring every 
thing about Jose except his response to printed letters. 
My own demands were an important part of Jose’s experience. 
They were not simply teh demands of a teacher, nor of an adult, 
but belonged to my own way of caring about Jose. And he sensed 
this. There was something he prized in the fact that | made demands 
on him. This became all the more evident once he realized that | 
wasn't simply processing him, that is, grading, measuring, etc. 
And when he learned that he could refuse—could refuse altogether 
could terminate the lesson, could change its direction, could insist 
On something else . 
. 
. we became collaborators in the business 
of life. . . 
. It boils down to this. . 
. we adults are entitled to 
demand much of our children... 
. The children are entitled to 
demand that they be treated as individuals, since that is what 
they are. 
Hooked on Books 
!f you’ve wrestled with ways to teach a non-reader as a 
teacher, if you’ve wondered what you could do as a 
businessman to help an obviously weak reading program 
in your schools, or if you’re the worried parent of a Book 
Avoider, then you‘ll tear through Hooked on Books 
with a firelike fervor fed on rekindled hopes. 
= Fader’s program involves the saturation of students’ 
. surroundings with newspapers, magazines and paperbound 
‘ books chosen because they are written on subjects relevant 
_ to the world outside a classroom. Diffusion of such 
: 
materials among teachers of all subjects and the use of 
‘writing, writing and more writing as the primary ways in 
; which to teach English is another important tenet of 
this program. 
: [t is a detailed report on an exciting and practical way 
* to teach reading, and it’s laced with such well written 
: anecdotes about the inmates of Maxey Boys Training 
': School where this program was first tried that Big Bill, 
 Superduck, Hogman, and Lester the Poet seem as real 
ge as teachable as they were to the.authors. 
© [Suggested and reviewed by Carol Guyton Goodell] 
! 
Hooked on Books: 
Pro: 
+ Daniel Fader and Elton M 
); 1968; 236 pp. 
£ 
S$. 
75 postpaid 
E: fro 
Berkeley Medallion Books 
-200 Madison Avenue 
i; New York, N. Y. 10016 
a 
and Proof. 
eil 
2 
ae Sates Pee 
“i 
2 Sy drake 
F 
Those of us who participated in selecting the original 1,200 
titles for the Maxey paperback library will never again have to be 
reminded how little we know about the students we teach. None 
of us will forget the untouched 700 titles that decorated our 
gleaming drugstore spinners while the boys read and reread the 
* 
500 they liked... 
. The 500 winners of our book Derby are 
included in the Reading List (pp. 148-173). 
The boy turns, pulls out of his shirt Dick Gregory’s Erom the 
Back of the Bus, waves it at the teacher, and shouts, “| bought 
: 
it, man, | bought it! Bought four more while | was home. 
“Didn't steal none!”’ Bought or stolen, those five books were 
% 
the first that Te 
had ever owned. 
Bis oy 
ePecerert rst 
Teacher 
Teacher is as unphoney, warm, and appealing as the grubby, 
tear streaked face of a child; it is also an important technical 
notebook for educators. Miss Ashton-Warner’s organic 
approach to reading and writing is a detailed enough account 
to be explored further by teachers anywhere. It is of especial 
value to teachers working with primary children. Students 
with a cultural or language barrier, and adult illiterates. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Caro! Guyton Goodell] 
Organic reading is not new. The Egyptian hieroglyphics were one- 
word sentences. Helen Keller’s first word, ‘water,’ was a one-word 
book. Tolstoy found his way to it in his peasant school, while, out 
in the field of UNESCO today, it is used automatically as the only 
reasonable way of introducing reading to primitive people: ina 
famine area the teachers wouldn’t think of beginning with any words 
other than ‘crop,’ ‘soil,’ ‘hunger,’ ‘manure,’ and the like. 
C) 
Backward readers have a private Key Vocabulary which once found 
launches them into reading. 
e 
The power content of a word can be determined better from a 
backward reader than from an average reader. 
‘ Noise, noise, noise, yes. But if you don’t like noise, don’t be a 
teacher. 
But there are two kinds of order, and which is the one we wish for? 
Is it the conscious order that ends up as respectability? Or is it the 
unconscious order that looks like chaos on the top? There is a separ- 
ate world on each side of this question mark. 
Teacher 
Sylvia Ashton-Warner 
1963; 224 pp. 
$1 .95 postpaid 
from: 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
