On Growth and Form 
. 
(a) Let 
CU Tint 
eT 
7 
= 
By 
Te 
BD 
\ 
. 
Pt 
— 
Ze 0 
Tees EUS 
x 
Fig. 143. (a) Harpinia plumosa Kr.; (6) Stegocephalus inflatus Kr.; 
(c) Hyperia galba. 
A 
<r 
A paradigm classic. Everyone dealing with 
_ growth or form in any manner can use the 
book. We’ve seen worn copies on the shelves 
_ of artists, inventors, engineers, computer 
_ systems designers, biologists. Would one of 
you do a thorough review of D’Arcy Thomp- 
son’s venerable book for the CATALOG? 
On Growth and Form 
D’‘Arcy Wentworth Thompson 
Two volume edition 
1917, 1952 
$27.50 postpaid (Currently out 
of print) 
Abridge paper edition 
1917, 1961; 346 pp. 
$2.75 postpaid 
from: 
Cambridge University Press 
510 North Avenue 
New Rochelle, N. Y. 10801 
When Plateau made the wire framework of a regular 
tetrahedron and dipped it in soap-solution, he ob- 
tained in an instant a beautifully symmetrical system 
of six films, meeting three by three in four edges and 
tnese four edges running trom the corners of the fig- 
ure to its centre of symmetry. Here they meet, two 
by two, at the Maraldi angle; and the films meet 
tnree by three, to form the re-entrant solid angle 
which we have called a ‘Maraldi pyramid’ in our 
_ account of the architecture of the honeycomb. 
The very same configuration is easily recognized in 
_ the minute siliceous skeleton of Callimitra. There 
are two discrepancies, neither of which need raise 
any difficulty. The figure is not rectilinear but a 
_ 
spherical tetrahedron, such as might be formed by 
Fig. 150. Polyprion. 
Fig. 151. Pseudopriacanthus altus. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
the boundary edges of a tetrahedral cluster of four 
eke 
co-equal bubbles; and just as Plateau extended his 
10 f 
EAN 
experiment by blowing a small bubble in the centre 
HARM: 
_ of his tetrahedral system, so we have a central bub» 
ey SY i 
- ble also here. 
ae 
7 oe 
_ This bubble may be of any size; but its situation (if 
( 
gen 
_ 
it be present at all) is always the same, and its shape 
TIGA 
_ is always such as to give the Maraldi angles at its own 
& 
four corners. The tension of its own walls, and those 
__ 
of the films by which it is supported or slung, all bal- 
__ 
ance one another. Hence the bubble appears in plane 
projection as a curvilinear equilateral triangle; and we 
have only got to convert this plane diagram into the 
corresponding solid to obtain the spherical tetrahed- 
ron we have been seeking to explain (Fig. 63). 
The geometry of the little inner tetrahedron is not less simple. 
and elegant. Its six edges and four faces are all equal. The films 
attaching it to the outer skeleton are all planes. Its faces are spherical, 
_ 
(b) 
Fig. 63. Diagrammatic construction of Callimitra. 
(a) A bubble suspended withir 
- 
a tetrahedral cage; (6) another bubble within a skeleton of the former bubble. 
(a) 
_ and each has its centre in the opposite corner. The edges are circular | 
arcs, with cosine 4; each is in a plane perpendicular to the chord of 
_ the are opposite, and each has its centre in the middle of that chord. 
Along each edge the two intersecting spheres meet each other at an: 
angle of 120°. 
i 
, 
, 
Orst) 
SHAFT LGTY SIS 
SAY FRAIL STS 
S TY FLAS Y SIG LI 
LSE 
LLY SHES IIL SY ES YY 
GIZA FES ZHI FLAS Y 
SH 
FREI 
$I SHS YI FLIZ SH § RS YSIS FRESY 
HY SRI PHY SRS HSREIY IY SRA 
HHS REIY FREY 5H SII 
Hy SRY gH GH FRR 
pf RI SRG A FLEKY FRAY SY SRATL SVU IG SLAY GG LIAL IG FRAY IY AAT PUPA 
The Sciences of the Artificial 
Simon says: we have generalized methods of obtaining 
elegant information from nature. We don’t have generalized 
methods of making elegant things to add to nature; we lack 
a science of design. He’s right and he doesn’t waste much 
time being right, but proceeds to make useful suggestions— 
_lots of them probably wrong and useful anyway. His notion 
_of sub-system stability in evolution is beautiful. 
The Science of the 
Artificial 
Herbert Simon 
1969; 123 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
The M.1.T. Press 
Room 765 
50 Ames Street 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
description, 
|f a complex structure is completely unredundant—if no aspect of its 
structure can be inferred from any other—then it is its own simplest 
The engineer, who had been busy de- 
signing a new and powerful crane, saw in 
a moment that the arrangement of the 
bony trabeculae was nothing more nor 
less than a diagram of the lines of stress, 
or directions of tension and compression, 
in the loaded structure: in short, that Na- 
RSS 
ture was strengthening the bone in pre- 
Sos | . cisely the manner and direction in which 
Di 
“strength was required; and he is said to 
: 
have cried out, ‘That's my craneF’ 
The Artifact as ‘Interface’ 
We can view the matter quite symmetrically. An artifact can be 
thought of as a meeting point—an ‘interface’ in today’s terms— 
between an ‘inner’ environment, the substance and organization of 
the artifact itself, and an ‘outer’ environment, the surroundings in 
which it operates, 
If the inner environment is appropriate to the 
Outer environment, or vice versa, the artifact will serve its intended 
purpose, Thus, if the clock is immune to buffeting, it will serve as a 
ship’s chronometer, (And conversely, if it isn’t, we may salvage it by 
‘mounting it on the mantel at home.) 
...all mathematical derivation can be viewed simply as change in 
‘representation, making evident what was previously true but 
Obscure. This view can be extended to all of problem solving— 
solving a problem simply means representing it so as to make the 
solution transparent. 
If the problem solving could actually be 
organized in these terms, the issue of representation would indeed 
become central, 
| should like to point to evidence that there are only a few ‘intrinsic’ 
characteristics of the inner environment of thinking man that limit 
the adaptation of his thought to the shape of the problem environ- 
ment. All else in his thinking and problem-solving behavior is 
artificial—is learned and is subject to improvement through the 
invention of improved designs. 
® 
~ 
Most of the complex structures found in the world are enormously 
redundant, and we can use this redundancy to simplify their 
description. But to use jt, to achieve the simplification, we must 
find the right representation. 
The Evolution of Complex Systems 
Let me introduce the topic of evolution with a parable. There once 
were two watchmakers, named Hora and Tempus, who manufactured 
very fine watches. Both of them were highly regarded, and the 
phones in their workshops rang frequently—new customers were 
constantly calling them. However, Hora prospered, while Tempus 
became poorer and poorer and finally lost his shop, What was the 
reason? 
The watches the men made consisted of about 1,000 parts each. 
Tempus had so constructed his that if he had one partly assembled 
and hed to put it down—to answer the phone, say—it immediately 
fell to pieces and had to be reassembled from the elements, The 
better the customers liked his watches, the more they phoned him 
and the more difficult it became for him to find enough uninterrupted 
time to finish a watch. 
The watches that Hora made were no less complex than those of 
Tempus. But he had designed them so that he could put together 
subassemblies of about ten elements each. Ten of these subassem- 
blies, again, could bé put together into a larger subassembly; and a 
system of ten of the latter subassemblies constituted the whole 
watch. Hence, when Hora had to put down a partly assembled 
watch in order to answer the phone, he lost only a small part of his 
work, and he assembled his watches in only a fraction of the man- 
hours it took Tempus. 
The time required for the evolution of a complex form from simple 
elements depends critically on the numbers and distribution of 
potential intermediate stable forms. 
A little reflection revaals that cues signaling progress play the same 
-. 
role in the problem-solving process that stable intermediate forms 
play in the biological evolutionary process. 
In fact, we can take 
over the watchmaker parable and apply it also to problem solving. 
In problem solving, a partial result that represents recognizable 
progress toward the goal plays the role of a stable subassembly. 
