a, 
The top of the heap in sound recording is Nagra. 
Their prices start at $1123. 
For general purpose high-quality mobile recording, the Uher 
4000 L js still in front of everyone else for reliability and 
economy (approx $440.). 
The new Uher 1000 Report Pilot, 
designed for sound/film synchronization, costs about $695. 
For access, try local dealers and compare with Behrena’s, 
(p. 69). 
ie 
Horns, Strings, and Harmony 
This is a very clear and fairly comprehensive introduction to 
musical physics, with suggestions for experiments to be 
performed by the reader at home. 
It is a paperback of 260 
pages with a good bibliography for further study. The 
author is a physicist and musician; the book is written for 
musicians and amateur physics teachers. 
There are three main divisions of subject matter: 
1) Theoretical discussions of the principles of vibration, 
Chapters I/, Hl, and VII 
2) Practical applications, 
Chapters 1V and V — the physics of hearing 
Chapters V1, VIII, and 1X — instrumental design 
(strings, brass, woodwinds) 
3) Homemade wind instruments, Chapter X. 
Familiarity with algebraic concepts is necessary throughout; 
access to musical instruments is helpful. Most of the 
experiments can be done at home without too much 
difficulty or expense (whistles, string, beads, etc.). 
The chapter on homemade instruments is for accomplished 
wind instrumentalists who are also confident with hand 
tools. 
[Reviewed by Peter Lynn Sessions. 
Suggested by Allen Watson III] 
Thus we see that the real test of a good violin is not in the ears of the 
listener, but rather in the hands of the player. 
If he can get the 
range of effects he wants, without strain, then he has a good instru- 
ment. Except in a minor way, by clearing away some of the most 
obvious stupidities, physics has not been able to help him very much 
more than has the witchcraft that has grown up lush and rank around 
this beautiful instrument. 
Once again the flute is different from other woodwinds; it needs no 
bell for two reasons: 
first because the vibration recipe of any flute, 
old or new in style, is so lacking in the higher components that very 
little sound energy is present above the change-over frequency, and, 
second, the very large holes of the modern Boehm flute serve to cut 
off the tube so effectively that all the notes think of themselves as 
coming out of the end of an ordinary pipe! 
Horns, Strings, and Harmony 
from: 
Arthur H. Benade 
Doubleday & Co. 
1960; 269 pp. 
501 Franklin 
Garden City, N. Y. 11531 
$1.45 postpaid 
HORNS, STRINGS 
& HARMONY 
Fig. 66. Over-all layout of machinery for a Boehm-style flute. The large arrows show the 
finger and thumb holes, while the numbers refer to particular hole positions as explained in 
the text. The right-hand part of this diagram also applies to the clarinet. 
¥ 
King Karol ; Records 
Portable listening is another matter entirely than recording. 
Here-I’m inclined to agree with Bob Fass that cassette is the 
medium and Sony the manufacturer. Specifically, the TC 124 
(stereo, w/o extra speakers): $149. 
® This looks like the best mail order source of records. They 
send you a comprehensive Schwann catalog to order from. 
@ Fairish discounts, postage paid. They also carry pre-recorded 
§ and blank tapes, cartridges, and cassettes. Now the question 
8 is how quick and reliable are they? 
[Suggested by Lloyd Martin] 
8 Catalog 
free 
3 from: 
3 King Karol Records 
3 P.O. Box 629 
§ Times Square Station 
3 New York, N. Y, 10036 
ALL ORDERS IN THE U.S.A., A.P.O. AND F.P.0, ORDERS FREE OF MAILING 
AND HANDLING CHARGES (Add 15% for all other Foreign handling and mailing—minimum charge $1.50) 
SCHWANN CATALOG MAILED FREE ON REQUEST 
Schwann Catalog 
Your Discount 
Schwann Catalog 
Your Discount 
q 
List Prices 
Price 
List Prices 
Price 
te 
CLE! Carr eee 
DU $1.55 
$306 5 Sit sicielocathiig neve $2.75 
DEG Ah! 
utcieas shire aa 
1.85 
Ca: rea Re 
RES 
risa. 1st 3.35 
DIGR 
H iy Upee LTS caer a 2.20 
5,98) «2 
< ivaysi rubilstgital esha 
4.15 
G96) 
nets metihien 
seo ae 4.65 
8 PLEASE NOTE: N.Y. RESIDENTS ADD TO THE ABOVE PRICES THE NEW YORK CITY 
4 
OR STATE SALES TAX 
’ 
Moog Synthesizer 
New instruments —> new music, and nothing 
can be done about it except fight or flow. 
Multi-channel sound recording studios are one 
new instrument. 
The Moog synthesizer is 
another. The following are excerpts from 
Edmund O. Ward's excellent review of Moog 
in the 3 May 69 Rolling Stone. 
[Suggested by Lloyd Kahn] 
Fifteen years ago, Moog started out with a handful of people—about 
a dozen or so, Today, the company is still very modest, employing 
about three dozen people. The Synthesizers- 
are built slowly with a 
great deal of care, and before each one goes out it is left on for a week 
and then dropped on the floor. ‘This procedure,’ a company 
representative told me, ‘helps to locate any construction flaws and 
insures that the instrument is rugged.’ Prices on Moog Synthesizers 
range from about $3500 to $8000 for a giant mother with all kinds 
; 
of special features, but they won’t sell you one unless you’ve had 
3 
ample opportunity to play with one and fondle it. To find out how 
' 
this might be best accomplished, you can write to them (R.A. Moog 
Co., Trumansburg, N. Y.), or go to Trumansburg yourself (phone 
ahead) and talk with them. 
e 
5 
Basically, then, the Moog Synthesizer provides a very com- 
pact version of what is known as the classical electronic 
studio, which consists of various types of signal generators 
(frequency producers), modifiers, and mixers. Moog 
instruments employ a system Known as voltage control in 
all of their operations. Voltage controlled instruments 
§ 
produce a voltage as a signal that may be controlled by 
Bai) bE 
SASS di ase sata 
SO Ce a 
ee 
TNA BRU 
ESS 
a) 
i, 
a 
other voltages from other instruments—and which variés 
in 
i) 
a 
tic 
Uses (2 lah les 
ARR eH 
a 
a 
: 
es 
step with them, permitting rapid amplitude (loudness) and 
frequency change, making calculation and calibration a 
y 
veritable snap. 
“pr
ea
WOODWINDS 
e 
It is the complete music machine, capable of 
imitating any known musical instrument (even the 
human voice in ‘the more sophisticated models), and 
able to produce any known sound, provided the 
Operator knows how to set the machine up correctly. 
The basic elements of this process may be learned in 
a few hours by anyone with a small amount of 
musical knowledge, but it should be stressed that 
the Moog Synthesizer is a genuine musical 
instrument, and, like all genuine musical instruments, 
feeling out the nuances and mastering them may 
take a lifetime, Although Moog Synthesizers have 
been used for Bach, rock, and television commercials, 
their main function so far has been for the 
composition of electronic ‘serious’ music, but if you 
" 
have a musical idea that you can conceptualize 
- 
clearly enough, whatever it is the Synthesizer can 
help you realize it, 
Fig. 46. The size of a side hole affects a pipe’s vi- 
brational frequencies. The extent of the effect is il- 
lustrated here by comparing different hole sizes with 
pipe lengths that give matching frequencies. Each 
pipe in the lower row has a frequency matching that 
of the holed pipe immediately above it. 
