Organic Gardening & Farming Magazine 
A monthly information exchange among gar- 
deners who do not use artificial fertilizers or 
poisonous insecticides. Keeps you current on 
new techniques and discoveries. 
The ads are valuable, telling you where to get 
seeds, farm machinery, etc. 
| save tall fruit-juice cans for protecting transplants, 
and like them also for their electroculture value. 
Last year, after shading my broccoli and collards 
against transplanting shock, | left the cans between 
the rows in an experiment with electroculture. Soon 
the cans were hidden by lush growth, the plants 
reaching 3 feet or more. 
from: 
Organic Gardening 
In the month that | have had my copy of How to Grow 
Vegetables and Fruits by the Organic Method, / have 
browsed in it and referred to it for so many different 
reasons, out of so many different moods, that I can’t 
decide if its resting place on the shelf is among my other 
“how-to” books or somewhere between the poetry and 
books on oriental religion. 
But! shall worry about that problem when the time comes, 
if it does. Right now I’m digging into it so often and with 
such delight it doesn’t need a place ona 
shelf. | keep it in 
handy reach on the dining room table. 
This book is the definitive manual on organic gardening. 
!t is loaded with information, 550,000 words spread over 
926 pages. It is wonderfully illustrated with pictures that 
are precise and useful, as well as pleasing to the eye. Ina 
pleasant, relaxed prose style, the style of people who ob- 
viously have spent more time in the garden than in the lib- 
rary but who at the same time are so confident of what 
they‘re saying their words ring hard and true, the editors 
of this manual have gathered together every fact that one 
would need to know to become a successful organic gardener, 
almost anywhere in the United States. 
Vitamin Losses 
| -was ready to give up on growing corn any earlier. 
Then one day when | was trying to figure out what 
| should do with a stack of corrugated clear-plastic 
panels left by the former owner of our home, | got 
an idea. Why not bend the panels to make covers 
over the rows of my early corn? The plastic would 
make a sort of miniature greenhouse over the plants, 
keeping out cold air but letting sunlight flood in to 
warm the soil. Furthermore, the panels would keep 
out pesky crows, blackbirds and rabbits. 
The idea worked like a charm. 
Reports on new equipment: 
When we called, the Gilson team was taking the 
wraps off a highly-experimental, pint-sized shredder. 
It has a very low center of gravity, is extremely 
mobile and light. Powered by a 3-h.p. engine, the 
Gilson composter features an idler clutch and an 
effective mixing and cutting chamber. 
And editorials: 
When you look at a plant growing in your garden, 
you do not see at once all the things which make it 
possible for that plant to thrive. But no living thing 
On this planet grows in isolation, Plants, animals, 
insects and people are all linked together in a web 
of life, with air, water, soil, minerals and other 
natural resources also playing vital parts. There is 
a cycle, a rhythm, to life. 
One lesson that we are now learning is that the web 
of life is made of very fine strands, Upsetting the 
life patterns of only one type of plant or animal, 
even in a small way, can have an effect on many 
other living things. 
Organic Gardening & Farming 
- 
$5.85 for one year , monthly 
$0.60 per copy 
Rodale Books, Inc. 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
J. 1. Rodale & 
1968; 1145 pp. 
$10.19 postpaid 
from: 
Rodale Books, Inc. 
33 East Minor Street 
Emmaus, PA 18049 
taff 
This book has another quality one does not always find in 
gardening manuals: it is well organized. The first part is 
about the soil; the second part is about vegetables, the third 
part is about fruit, and the closing pages are devoted to nut 
culture and herbs. 
Encyclopedia of Organic Gardening 
The eae of Organic Gardening 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Wuip or ToncuE Graft: This 
appears to be the best method where 
the stock and scion are close to the 
same thickness. When the stock that is 
to be grafted is greater than 34-inch 
in diameter, 
it is best to use some 
other 
form 
of. grafting 
because 
it 
would be very difficult 
to make the 
proper cuts with the grafting tools. 
A permanent reference book, compiled from 
years of magazine issues. How to plant, 
cultivate, fertilize and harvest. Thousands of 
subjects: composting, mulching, soil acidity, 
control, earthworms, ete. 
zine with the Encyclopedia, this keeps me up 
on latest information on the subject. 
The Encyclopedia and How to Raise Fruits 
are both indispensable: the former has many 
more subjects, the latter goes into greater 
detail. 
How to Grow 
pruning, vegetables, fruit and nut trees, insect 
/ cross-reference anything useful in the maga- 
— 
and Vegetables by the Organic Method (below) _
[Suggested by Lama Foundation] 
/n Section one, there are chapters on how to improve the soil; 
make compost; start plants from seed; watering and irrigation; 
when to harvest; fall and winter gardening; controlling insects; 
greenhouse gardening. 
|
Vegetables and 
Fruits by the 
Organic 
Method 
ed. J.1. Rodale 
Section two looks closely at some 100 vegetables, giving a 
page to each vegetable, artichokes through zucchini, and what 
amounts to a brief essay that describes the history, vitamin 
content and how to raise each individual vegetable. 
Another section does the same with some sixty varieties 
of 
North American fruit, from apples and apricots to water- 
melons and youngberries. 
In addition, there are scores of charts and graphs that pro- 
vide a complete planting guide for all the listed vegetables 
and fruits. Each geographical region of the United States 
and its peculiarities are accounted for. One table, for 
instance, is titled, “Planning Guide for a Family of Five in 
Washington.” Categories of information for gardening in 
Washington include planting dates, growing period, length 
of the garden row, amount of seed, depth to plant, distance 
between rows, and distance between plants. 
1961; 926 pp. 
$10.19 
from: 
Emmaus, Penna 
The entire book is that detailed on every subject it takes up. 
Vegetables to be cooked should be handled in the same manner as salad 
vegetables. 
Gather immediately before using or else wash, dry and store 
in a cool place. If they are left at room temperature and in the light, much 
folic acid, vitamin B, and 50 per cent or more of the vitamin C in most 
fresh vegetables can be lost in a few hours. 
Inoculate Garden Legumes 
A Tier-Shelf Bed for Mushrooms 
If you are planning to grow any beafs, peas or peanuts in your garden 
this spring, why not take time out to inoculate the seed with nitrogen-gathering 
bacteria? 
It will certainly be worth your while. 
Te 
ego 
3-in Leaf Mulch 
3 com 1-in Compost 
+ 
Large Tin Can 
5 
Mixture~Conpos, 
Peat Moss, Leat Mould, 
Top Soil, Phosphate Rock 
34 
Several “secrets” are involved in this diagram 
In addition to digging an outsize hole and us 
ing the large center stone, you also mulch with 
rocks and leaves and install adequate drainage 
: 
PI re tony 
LV len 
gs0 ae whee ae 
6a) Large Rock 
7 
Top Soil 
$QO Small Rocks 
q 
(Mix-Compost, 
Top Soil, Leaf Mould, 
Phosphate Rock 
10 4-in Drain Tile 
End 
OW 
One need not, however, intend raising food for a family of 
five before this book can be useful to you, and a pleasure. 
| find it absolutely stimulating just as reading matter. 
It’s 
pleasing in the way that thumbing through a catalog filled 
with delights you crave can be pleasing. Browsing in this 
book reminds one of fundamental things, of soil and water 
and air, and one’s own involvement in the natural scheme 
of the world. 
The book is beautiful in the way that native 
crafts are beautiful: it’s alive aesthetically at the same time 
that it’s useful. 
That’s more than one can say about most 
novels. | own very few books Id rather have than this one, 
| recommend it to gardeners of all shapes and sizes, and to 
— 
aware people in general who enjoy reading books whose 
themes, images and metaphors are drawn from the world 
of nature. 
[Reviewed by Gurnev Norman] 
But we are more concerned here with the ‘‘meat-eaters’’—birds which 
prefer to eat millions of insect life. A few birds prefer an all-insect 
diet. They include barn swallows, swifts, house wrens, gratcatchers, 
— 
flycatchers, brown creepers and some of the several species of warbler 
Their bills are long and straight, or long and curved; or they may be © 
short and whiskered; whippoorwills and the nighthawk family belong - 
to this group. 
and Staff 
postpaid 
Rodale Books, Inc 
33 East Minor St 
— 
or 
we 
WHOLE 
EARTH 
» CATALOG 
rs 
