_ 
2 
ae 
hoe 
oe 
. 
a 
a 
: 
How to Live on Nothing 
gj Gestalt Therapy Verbatim 
Earth House Hold 
* Fritz Perls makes a career of being usefully insufferable. 
In a clear voice Gary Snyder promotes ecology, communes, 
and travel. A lot of people are responding in particular to 
This book has a lot in common with Champagne Living On A 
This book is unvarnished transcript of his groups at 
this much-suggested book. 
Beer Budget (p. 88), but there’s enough difference between the 
Esalen Institute being whipped into shape. How to be 
two to make them more companion pieces than competitors. 
a pain in the ass and loved. Kesey likes him a lot. Barry 
The emphasis in Champagne Living /s on the cheap accumu- 
Stevens picks out these Fritz pearls from the beginning 
lation of necessary things. How To Live On Nothing covers 
of the book: 
Don’t be a mountaineer, be a mountain. 
And shrug off a few with avalanches. 
some of that ground too, but its main concern is the devel- 
opment of personal skills to help you get free of the need 
to pay people like carpenters, plumbers, doctors and real 
estate agents to live your practical (that is to say, your 
“real” or “concrete”) life for you. 
Of course there’s no such thing as “living on nothing.” The 
book would be more properly titled, Living for Something. 
For in a curious, unintended, Zen sort of way, that’s what 
this book is about: living simply to establish familiarity 
with the details of your world, with ordinary local mysteries 
and miracles such as the wiring system in your house, the 
fabric of the garments you wear, the truth of the food you 
eat, and the fuel you burn. Behind the information, the advice 
the hints, and the facts, this book is about coming to see 
things as they are, through your own eyes, instead of the 
hired eyes of some expert or other. 
It’s about training 
yourself to trust yourself, and trusting yourself to train 
yourself, until you're able to claim your right as a human 
to be competent with your hands. 
Finally no one is ever competent with his hands until 
he uses them, and flipping through how-to-do-it books can 
hardly be described as manual labor. So perhaps the best 
way to recommend a book like this is to call it literature 
and emphasize its inspirational value. | kind of like 
that idea. I’ve thought the same thing about the Whole 
Earth Catalog in general, which brings up an interesting 
question: if the ultimate test of a good manual is its 
success as art, does that mean that the ultimate test of 
a good novel is its uses as a manual? We'll see. Mean- 
while, here’s a good 75 cent how-to-do-it book that 
could be a help to you on your next trip, real or 
imagined, into the New Wilderness. 
[Suggested by Jim Martin. 
Reviewed by Gurney Norman] 
If you're mathematical-minded, remember that when the 
smallest-sized egg is less than 85 per cent of the price of the 
next size, the smaller is the better buy. Brown eggs and 
white have the same food value, so buy the cheaper. 
If you 
live near the source of the supply, get cracked eggs at a 
fraction of the other eggs’ cost. You can boil even cracked eggs by 
wrapping them individually in waxed paper and twisting the 
ends of the paper securely. Eggs Keep best under refrigeration, 
stored in a covered egg box with the large end of the egg 
uppermost. Eggs are so versatile that they can be the basis 
of your breakfast, the mainstay of your everyday meals, or the 
proudest company fare in the form of soufflés. 
e 
i 
A food and nutrition chapter would not be complete without 
mention of a food bargain that is unknown to most of us. 
It 
is MPF, the Multi-Purpose Food, developed at the California 
Institute of Technology and merchandised through the Meals 
for Millions Foundation Incorporated, 115 West Seventh 
Street, Los Angeles, California 90014. This is a non-profit 
organization dedicated to relieving and preventing starvation 
and malnutrition throughout the world. Meals for Millions 
supplies MPF for 3 cents a meal to famine areas. 
Open the faucets on frozen pipes. Wrap the hot .wwels or rags 
around the pipes, beginning at the faucet end and working back 
toward the water source. You can pour more hot water on the 
rags as they cool if the pipes haven't thawed. Never attempt to 
thaw a frozen pipe in the middle. Dammed by ice at both ends, 
the expanding melting water may burst the pipe. This is especially 
dangerous in the case of using a blow torch to thaw pipes. The 
steam exploding from the bursting pipe may scald you. Reverse 
the procedure in melting frozen sewer pipes, beginning at the 
sewer end and working toward the fixture. Pour boiling water 
into frozen drains. 
FOR CUTS AND BRUISES 
Puffball (Lycoperdon giganteum or Calvatia gigantea). Also 
called devil’s-snuffbox and bullfist, this giant puffball, a 
species of mushroom, is easy to identify on account of its 
large size, the size of a human head, as it grows almost stemless 
in pastures, etc. When fully ripe it evaporates in brown smoke 
when stepped on. 
It is this brown powder that was dusted on 
wounds for its styptic quality. Our Indians even stored the 
“snuff” for time of need and the British were said to have used 
some of their puffballs as anesthetic in place of chloroform by 
burning mature ones and using the fumes. 
How to Live on Nothing 
Joan Ranson Shortney 
| have often been called the founder of Gestalt therapy. 
That's crap. 
If you call me the finder or re-finder of 
Gestalt therapy, okeh. Gestalt is as ancient and old as 
the world itself. 
& 
Gestalt philosophy tries to be in harmony with what is. 
* Take responsibility for every emotion, every movement you 
=» 
make, every thought you have—and shed responsibility for 
( 
anybody else. 
3, Wanting to be helpful is doomed from the beginning. 
#y your life. 
Each time you ask the question Why? you diminish in stature. 
; You bother yourself with false, unnecessary information. 
You only feed the computer, the intellect. And the 
? intellect is the whore of intelligence. 
It's a drag on 
a Anxiety is the gap between the now and the later. 
Ra 
° 
7} institution. The organism works always on the basis of preference. 
The organism does not make decisions. Decision is a man-made 
If you feel comfortable in yourself, you don’t love yourself and 
; you don’t hate yourself, you just live. 
i 
e 
‘The simplicity of the Gestalt approach is that we pay attention 
to the obvious, to the utmost surface. We don’t delve into a 
region which we don’t know anything about, into the so-called 
unconscious. 
ae Very many people have no center, and without a center you 
wobble in life. 
j 
e 
Any deliberate change is doomed to failure. Change has to come 
- by itself through organismic self-regulation. 
Pd 
° 
® We apply enough skillful frustration so that the patient is 
*_. forced to find his own way, discover his own potential, and 
Fe 
in 
& 
we 
a 
* 
& 
5 
+ 
¥ 2 
¥ 
he 
« 
1969; 279 pp. 
2 
he $3.50 postpaid 
. from: 
{ 
4 discover that_what he expects from the therapist, he can do 
# just as well himself. 
‘My whole definition of learning is that learning is discovering 
that something is possible. 
Gestalt Therapy Verbatim 
' Frederick S. Perls, M. D., Ph. D. 
Real People Press 
939 Carol Lane 
Lafayette, CA 94549 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
1 do my thing, and you do your thing. 
| am not in this world to live up to your expectations 
*} 1966; 143 pp. 
is $1.95 postpaid 
| Earth House Hold 
Key to evolution adaptability: the organism alters itself 
rather than continue fruitless competition. 
.. 
. logging camp morning, high clouds 
moving east, birds, morning light on the pine and sugi; 
Comes a time when the poet must choose: 
either to step 
deep in the stream of his people, history, tradition, folding and 
folding himself in wealth of persons and pasts; philosophy, 
humanity, to become richly foundationed and great and sane 
and ordered. Or, to step beyond the bound onto the way out, 
into horrors and angels, possible madness or silly Faustian 
doom, possible utter transcendence, possible enlightened return, 
possible ignominious wormish perishing. 
° 
The super hunting-bands of mercenaries like Rand or 
‘® CIA may in some ways belong to the future, if they can be 
‘4 transformed by the ecological conscience, or acid, to which they 
are very vulnerable. 
e 
Gary Snyder 
from: 
New Directions 
Publishing Corporation 
333 Sixth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10014 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
There is a great truth in the relationship established by 
hunting: 
like in love or art, you must become one with the 
other. (Which is why paleolithic hunting magic is so important 
historically: the necessities of identy, intuition, stillness, that 
go with hunting make it seem as though shamanism and yoga 
and meditation may have their roots in the requirements of the 
hunter—where a man learns to be motionless for a day, 
; 
putting his mind in an open state so that his consciousness won’ 
spook creatures that he knows will soon be approaching.) 
After breakfast every morning there would be a quiet, natural 
4 discussion of the day’s work; people would volunteer for 
% Various tasks—never any pressuring—somebody might say, 
& ‘| et's be sure and put the tools back where we got them, | 
couldn’t find the file yesterday”’ or something—but without 
* acrimony; Westerners have much to learn from this easy 
cooperativeness and sense of getting the work done without fuss. 
& The Banyan people had less ego-friction (none!) and difficulty 
% 
over chores than any group I've ever seen. 
(Beware of anything that promises freedom or enlightenment 
—traps for eager and clever fools—a dog has a keener nose— 
every creature in a cave can justify himself. Three-fourths of 
philosophy and literature is the talk of people trying to 
convince themselves that they really like the cage they were 
' tricked into entering.) 
We use the term Tribe because it suggests the type of new 
societv now emerging within the industrial nations. 
In America 
of course the word has associations with the American Indians, 
which we like. This new subculture is in fact more similar to 
that ancient and successful tribe, the European Gypies—a 
1961; 336 pp. 
ik dia << a ee world to live up to mine. 
‘= group without nation or territory which maintains its own values, 
va 
; 
et 
res 
fs 
: 
$.75 eee 
And if By chance wa filed GEO EC ALE DeRUTTAL 
e its language Sat religion, no matter what contry it may be in. 
If not, it can’t be helped. 
4 
The Tribe proposes a totally different style: based on 
IE 
community houses, villages and ashrams; tribe-run farms or 
Pocket Books 
A Division of 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
‘. workshops or companies; large open families; pilgrimages and 
wanderings from center to center. A synthesis of Gandhian 
“village anarchism” and |. W. W. syndicalism. Interesting 
visionary pamphlets along these lines were written several years 
ago by Gandhians Richard Gregg and Appa Patwardhan. The 
or WHOLE 
Tribe proposes personal responsibilities rather than abstract 
EARTH 
centralized government, taxes and advertising-agency-plus-Mafia 
CATALOG 
' 
type international brainwashing corporations. 
How do they recognize each 
; other? Not always by beards, long hair, bare feet or beads. The 
- signal is a bright and tender look; calmness and gentleness, 
freshness and ease of manner. Men, women and children—all 
of whom together hope to follow the timeless path of love and 
wisdom, in affectionate company with the sky, winds, clouds, 
trees, waters, animals and grasses—this is the tribe. 
os 
