| 
| 
| 
( everybody does something about him, and 
— 
ei ae re 
Ee ol 
= 
cia 
- 
Uedit 
th 
Ue 
‘Understanding Media 
Everybody talks about McLuhan, and 
that makes it subjectively harder to get at 
him. He’s got other insights than what you 
hear about, so it’s worth the trouble, to track 
him down, both his current sayings and his 
prime collections. An excellent set of recent 
sayings was in a Playboy interview a few 
THE MOST INFLUENTIAL BOOK BY THE MOST DEBATED MAN 
OF THE DECADE. 
."THE MOST IMPORTANT THINKER 
NEWTON, DARWIN, FREUD, 
Marshall McLuhan 
Understanding 
Eventually the method of the counting board gave 
rise to the great discovery of the principle of posi- 
tion in the early centuries 
of our era. By simply 
putting 3 and 4 and 2 in position on the board, one 
after another, it was possible to step up the speed 
and potential of calculation fantastically. The 
discovery of calculation by positional numbers 
rather than by merely additive numbers led, also, to 
the discovery of zero. Mere positions for 3 and 2 on 
the board created ambiguities about whether the 
months ago (he foresaw the imminent demise 
of language into global telepathy: ‘The body 
of Christ). For prime collection the primest 
_is Understanding Media. 
[Suggested by Gerd Stern, then.) 
Understanding Media 
Marshall McLuhan 
1964; 318 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
Signet—New American Library, Inc. 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
' 
Said the Duke of Gloucester to Edward Gibbon upon 
the publication of his Decline and Fall: ‘Another 
damned fat book, eh, Mr. Gibbon? Scribble, 
scribble, scribble, eh, Mr. Gibbon?’ 
e jain EXTENSIONS OF MAN 
“The oracle of the electric age" ~cire, 
“The oracle of the New Communications" —ncwswerx 
‘A 
SIGNET BOOK COMPLETE AND UNABRIDGED 
number was 32 or 302. The need was to have a 
sign for the gaps between numbers, 
!t was not till 
the thirteenth century that sifr, the Arab word for 
*gap’ or ‘empty,’ was Latinized and added to our 
culture as ‘cipher’ (ziphirum) and finally became the 
Italian zero, Zero really meant a positional gap. 
‘Work,’ however, does not exist in a nonliterate 
world. The primitive hunter or fisherman did no 
work, any more than does the poet, painter, or 
thinker of today. Where the whole man is involved 
there is no work. 
Language does for intelligence what the wheel does 
for the feet and the body. It enables them to move 
from thing to thing with greater ease and speed and 
ever less involvement. 
As W. B. Yeats wrote of this reversal, ‘The visible 
world is no longer a reality and the unseen world is 
no longer a dream.’ 
Not only does the visual, specialist, and fragmented 
Westerner have now to live in closest daily associa- 
tion with all the ancient oral cultures of the earth, 
Even slight changes in the environment of the very 
well adjusted find them without any resource to 
meet new challenge. Such is the plight of the 
representatives of ‘conventional wisdom’ in any 
society. Their entire stake of security and status is 
in a single form of acquired knowledge, so that 
innovation is for them not novelty but annihilation. 
but his own electric technology now begins to 
translate the visual or eye man back into the tribal 
and oral pattern with its seamless web of kinship 
and interdependence. 
Cybernetics 
McLuhan’s assertion that computers constitute an extension 
of the human nervous system is an accurate historical 
statement. 
The research and speculation that led to computer 
design arose from investigation of healthy and pathological 
human response patterns embodied in the topological 
make-up of the nervous system. Insights here soon expanded 
into generalizations about communication that permitted the 
buj!ding of analagous electronic devices physically separate 
from the Central Nervous System. But they’re just one artifact 
of these new understandings about communication. Society, 
from organism to community to civilization to universe, is 
the domain of cybernetics. Norbert Wiener has the story, 
and to some extent, is the story. 
To predict the future of a curve is to carry out a certain operation on 
its past. 
The central nervous system no longer appears as a self-contained 
organ, receiving inputs from the senses and discharging into the 
muscles. On the contrary, some of its most characteristic activities 
are explicable only as circular processes, emerging from the nervous 
system into the muscles, and re-entering the nervous system through 
the sense organs, whether they be proprioceptors or organs of the 
special senses. This seemed to us to mark a new step in the study 
of that part of neurophysiology which concerns not solely the 
elementary processes of nerves and synapses but the performance of 
the nervous system as an integrated whole. 
The teedback of voluntary activity is df this nature. We do not will 
the motions of certain muscles, and indeed we generally do not 
know which muscles are to be moved to accomplish a given task; 
we will, say, to pick up a cigarette. Our motion is regulated by some 
measure of the amount by which it has not yet been accomplished. 
Meantime, the countryside, as oriented and 
fashioned by plane, by highway, and by electric 
information-gathering, tends to become once more 
the nomadic trackless area that preceded the wheel. 
| have spoken of the race. This is really too broad a term for the 
scope of most communal information. Properly speaking, the 
communitv extends only so far as there extends an effectual 
transmission of information. 
It is possible: to give a sort of measure 
to this by comparing the number of decisions entering a group from 
outside with the number of decisions made in the group. We can thus 
measure the autonomy of the group. A measure of the effective size 
of a group is given by the size which it must have to have achieved a 
certain stated degree of autonomy. 
Thus small, closely knit communities have a very considerable measure 
of homeostasis; and this, whether they are highly literate communities 
in a civilized country or villages of primitive savages. Strange and even 
repugnant as the customs of many barbarians may seem to us, they 
generally have a very definite homeostatic value, which it is part of the 
function of anthropologists to interpret. It is only in the large 
community, where the Lords of Things as They Are protect themselves 
from hunger by wealth, from public opinion by privacy and anonymity 
from private criticism by the laws of libel and the possession of the 
means of communication, that ruthlessness can reach its most sublime 
levels. Of all of these anti-homeostatic factors in society, the control 
of the means of communication is the most effective and most 
important. 
The mongoose begins with a feint, which provokes the snake to strike. 
The mongoose dodges and makes another such feint, so that we have 
a rhythmical pattern of activity on the part of the two animals. 
However, this dance is not static but develops progressively. As it 
goes on, the feints of the mongoose come earlier and earlier in phase 
with respect to the darts of the cobra, until finally the mongoose 
attacks when the cobra is extended and not ina position to move 
rapidly. This time the mongoose’s attack is not a feint but a deadly 
accurate bite through the cobra’s brain. 
In other words, the snake’s pattern of action is confined to single 
darts, each one for itself, while the pattern of the mongoose’s action 
involves an appreciable, if not very long, segment of the whole past 
of the fight. To this extent the mongoose acts like a learning machine, 
and the real deadliness of its attack is dependent on a much more 
highly organized nervous system. 
To use a biological analogy, the parallel system had a better 
homeostasis than the series system and therefore survived, while 
the series system eliminated itself by natural selection. 
We thus see that a non-linear interaction causing the attraction of 
frequency can generate a self-organizing system. . 
. 
. 
If the phonetic alphabet was a technical means of 
severing the spoken word from its aspects of sound 
and gesture, the photograph and its development in 
the movie restored gesture to the human technology 
of recording experience. 
Man the food-gatherer reappears incongruously as 
information-gatherer. 
In this role, electronic man is 
no less a nomad than his paleolithic ancestors, 
Everybody experiences far more than he understands. 
Yet it is experience, rather than understanding, that 
influences behavior, especially in collective matters 
of media and technology, where the individual is 
almost inevitably unaware of their effect upon him. 
It is a principal aspect of the electric age that it 
establishes a global network that has much of the 
character of our central nervous system. Our 
central nervous system is not merely an electric 
network, but it constitutes a single unified field of 
experience. As biologists point out, the brain is the 
interacting place where all kinds of impressions and 
experiences can be exchanged and translated, 
enabling us to react to the world as a whole. 
Cybernetics — or Control and Communication in the 
Animal and the Machine 
Norbert Wiener 
1948,1961;212 pp. 
$2.45 postpaid 
from: 
The M. |. T. Press 
Cambridge, Mass. 02142 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
