WR 
rT 
ES 
eer 
rye 
—— 
i a a 
_ soft, and worms working. 
_ Without an Aching Back 
$1.45 postpaid 
_ alkalinity, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potash. A test will show 
How to Have a Green Thumb 
Without an Aching Back 
A classic in organic gardening. Now in her 80’s, 
Ruth Stout is still telling gardeners how to take it 
easy; mainly by using her home-devised mulching. 
system, which is purported to eliminate composting, 
weeding, watering, tilling, digging, and worrying. 
Briefly, it amounts to covering ground around 
vegetables with about 8” of organic matter (such as 
hay), which keeps weeds down, moisture in, ground 
How to Have a Green Thumb 
Ruth Stout 
1955; 160 pp. (dk. green text) 
from: 
Cornerstone Library Publications 
Simon & Schuster, Inc. 
630 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Soil Test Kit 
A soil test kit enables you to test your garden soil for acidity/ 
what is present and what is lacking. There are test tubes, 
chemicals, and a color chart to gauge results. Be sure to ask 
for ‘The Organic Supplement’ prepared by Organic Gardening 
magazine in case *...you have decided to work with Nature’s 
own methods of fertilization.’ Feed the soil, not the plant. 
If the soil is too acid, it may be brought back to a favorable pH 
(acidity-alkalinity balance) by addition of ground limestone or dolo- 
mite.... Soils which are too alkaline can be corrected with organic 
matter, which produces natural acids directly as it decays. 
Nitrogen is responsible for producing leaf growth and greener leaves 
».-.One of the easiest and most effective ways of adding nitrogen and 
building soil fertility is growing and turning under foliaze crops such 
as clover, vetch, alfalfa, etc. 
Phosphorous...is important for a strong root system, for brighter 
flowers and good growth....You can best add phosphorous to your 
soil with finely ground rock phosphate. 
Potash, the third major nutrient carries carbohydrates through the 
plant, helps form strong stems, and fights disease. Major natural 
sources of potash are fly ash, wood ashes, granite dust, seaweed, etc. 
y Sudbury Soil Test Kit 
gor 
Send for descriptive literature 
Kits: $5.95-39.95 
from: 
Sudbury Laboratory, Inc. 
Sudbury, Mass. 01776 
cae “Py 
* 
Pruning Handbook 
* 
Goat Husbandry 
An interesting book but in browsing thru it, looking for key 
information, | realized that the free pamphlet, Your Dairy Goat 
put out by the USDA, available at any Agricultural Extension 
office, has all the necessary, immediate information needed 
by the individual, or community to go into the home goat 
business. The price of the book will, in many parts of the 
country, buy a goat. 
Z 
(personal footnote, if you want it) Goat owners are a lot 
like horse traders. Be careful. Seek out experienced advice. 
If possible, have someone whose opinion you trust along with 
you when buying a goat. If you are paying fifty dollars or more, 
as is sometimes necessary, for your goat, invest in a vet’s 
inspection and opinion if at all possible. 
My preference is unquestionably Toggenburg. A three 
year old doe whose milking and kidding record is available 
is most desirable. 
Toggenburg crosses cut the price in half 
and by selecting bucks you can breed back to almost pure 
strain in a few years. (Toggenburg on the doe’s side as that’s 
who determines milk production.) A last word: if you are in the 
market for goats you probably already like them. They are almost 
all beautiful animals. When | first got into goats | bought a 
nice three year old Alpine doe just drying up. She looked like 
an antelope. Beautiful. She did dry up shortly. | bred her, 
fed her for five months. She had trouble kidding and her 
milk production was poor. Nothing | could do in the way 
of feeding and milking schedules helped. | still had a 
beautiful pet goat but awfully expensive. Somehow | like 
the good milkers more. 
[Reviewed by Steve Katona] 
Your Dairy Goat 
Goat Husbandry 
David Mackenzie 
free 
1967; 368 pp. 
from: 
$15.75 postpaid 
University of California 
Agricultural Extension Service 
from: 
Public Service Office 
Transatlantic Arts 
141 Administration Building 
Trade Dept. 
North Village Green 
Levittown, L.|., N. Y. 11756 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Because goats are dairy animals, they must have dairy characteristics. 
Check to see that the doe has a feminine head, thin neck, sharp withers, 
well-defined spine or backbone and hips, thin thighs, and rather fine 
bones. The skin should be thin and fine over the ribs. Look for a wide 
spring of rib and roomy barrel. This will help you to know how much 
feed she can eat. The constitution, or physical nature, is an important 
item shown by the depth and width of the chest. 
It’s important to 
look at the udder, too. 
It should be large when full of milk and very 
much smaller when empty. A large udder does not always mean a high 
milk yield. 
University of California 
Davis, California 95616 
This booklet starts with a basic description of the way plants grow, lists pruning tools and their uses, and describes 
pruning systems for ornamental and fruit trees, berries and grapes, roses and vines. 
‘joes not always develop a graceful garden tree. 
General objectives of pruning have to do 
with modifying the growth of the plants to 
[Suggested by Fred Richardson] 
One way to learn the fundamentals of pruning is 
to study the mistakes that other gardeners make. 
te ————_—_@) (at 
BRANCHES: 
END OF A BRANCH) 
(a) BECAUSE IT IS LONGER 
* 
Rural Industry 
This guide catalogs several hundred tools, all manufactured or 
distributed by CeCoCo (Central Commercial Co.), and all 
applicable to what they term “cottage industry”. In quaint 
English translation CeCoCo editors spell out the small scale 
cottage industry concept: 
Small-Scale Cottage Industry belies its name by providing 
a large proportion of all industrial employment and 
accounting for the great majority of all industrial 
establishments. However, it is often asked whether such 
industry can survive and perform a useful function in the 
highly industrialized regions of the world, and what its: 
Place should be in the economic plans of developing 
countries. Analysis of the exact nature of the problems 
facing small-scale industry and of the way in which it is 
adapting itself to meet them. Far from being moribund, 
small-scale industry is a dynamic force with a valuable 
role to play in the modern economy of both highly 
industrialized regions and developing countries. 
In almost all developing countries in the world, there are 
determined efforts to achieve material economic progress 
and emphasis is being carried out to induce a shift in the 
structural pattern of the economy from one basically 
agricultural to one that is agro-industrial in character 
to assure an increasing level of national production within 
the framework of economic and social stability which does 
not require much of foreign exchange to insure its growth. 
That is very important to select such industries which do 
not need foreign exchange in obtaining raw materials. 
The high cost of living in the urban areas, nevertheless 
reduces the workers’ real income. Money incomes in the 
rural areas is lower than those in cities but the cost of 
living is equally lower compared with urban living. The full 
development of cottage industry in the rural areas, can 
provide additional forms of incomes on the part of 
rural families, which could reduce the influx of 
population to cities in quest for employment. This 
ultimately would minimize social problem in urban 
centers. 
The tools listed in this catalog are absolutely fascinating. One 
spends hours studying specifications, diagrams and photos of 
CeCoCo “making” machines. 
(In the Wire Products section, 
for instance, one finds Paper Pin Making Machine, Staple 
Pin Making Machine, Hair Pin Making Machine, Safety Pin 
Making Machine, Snap Button Making Machine, Nail 
Making Machine, Barbed Wire Making Machine, Chain 
Making Machine, Zip-Fastener Making Machine, Etc.) 
CeCoCo was established in 1916, but refers to an association 
with a manufacturer of animal-drawn farming implements since 
1863. They maintain an exhibition and demonstration 
farm center at Ibaraki, On the back cover of their guide 
book one sees photos of dignitaries from all countries of 
the world visiting CeCoCo center. 
Some of the diesel and kerosene driven farm implements, 
and manually operated equipment proved to be especially 
pertinent to this reviewer. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Ken Kern] 
“CECOCO” MOTORLESS HYDRO-HI-LIFT PUMP 
This particular pump will raise water by the power caused by means 
of declivity of water-flow up to the height 30 times of water head and 
operates automatically without any motive power such as gasoline, 
other fuel oils and electricity and no attendance for operation is 
necessary. 
It is extensively used in Japan for water supply at home, 
and field for irrigation, spraying and water reservoir on the top of 
mountain and hill. 
; 
PRINCIPLE: 
In order to raise the water automatically by multiplied 
power of (1) the water hammer pressure leading pipe installed with a 
slight inclination and (2) the specific gravity with effectivity of the 
air in the delivery pipe taken in by the negative pressure (Vacuum) 
caused by the reactional flow of the water hammer pressure. 
HOW TO INSTALL: Although it is motorless, it has to have a flow of 
water as the source of power to operate the pump and the “head" is 
absolutely necessary. During operation, proportionate amount of 
water to be delivered, therefore it must have drainage. The gist of 
such parts are: 
(1) Head 0.5—4 meter for small type and 1—8 meter for large 
type is considered to be the best for practical use. 
(2) Leading Water Pipe: The length of leading pipe is, for practical 
use, approximately 8 times of the Water Head and the pipe must 
be kept straight. 
!t needs to be hard, therefore it is advisable to 
use steel pipe. 
(3) Delivery Pipe: The size of the delivery pipe is half in diameter of 
the leading pipe. 
(4) Drain Well: 
In order to cause counter current at the moment Drain 
adjust it to the conditions of the garden. 
Gs 
PRIMARY BRANCHES 
Valve opens, it is necessary to install Drain Well. Also, in order 
@ 
fb 
to take the air, make the water level of drain well equal to red 
f, 
o 
line marked on discharging mouth. 
(5) Discharging Water: 
|t may be drained out into well or culvert or 
Pruning 
Handbook 
LaTemais. Tose 
any other suitable equipment. 
Roy L. 
Hudson 
© from Pamanes 
1969; 80 pp. 
So es 
tyostration of Pacts 
2 
¥ 
; 
dud) 
; 
7 
Guide Book for Rural Cottage 
& Leading Pipe, CApe 
$1.95 postpaid 
© a 
and Small and Medium Scale Industries 3 
pra 
Fons 
‘warersrrouts (2)—\ 
\ 
© mancien srue 
158 pp. 
Lane Magazine & Book Company 
® 
a aisoes 
$5.50 postpaid 
from: 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
Ona 
eS 
a 
ania 
open bp) 
; 
Ibaraki Ci 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Oren 
Pee rene 
: 
; 
: 
o- 
OD ferences 
Japan 
Heavy pruning of the apricot is essential to insure regular fruit 
6) 
@ 
i 
production. One-year old shoots produce a portion of the crop, 
i 
Ondasow coro 
8. Blow Of Cock 
but short-lived spurs carry the major portion. As these spurs 
STRONG, CLEAN. @ 
CATCH Deams, TO 
q. seek: 
are usually good for only three years, they must constantly be 
Speke prtacal 
CONDITION 0 THE 
/0. Adj ng Surew 
_ renewed. The tree, in suitable areas, is a very lush grower and a 
“Query 
. 
Il. Flown 
heavy bearer. Unless kept in severe check, it will rapidly become 
H. Head “Value 
too large and will bear its fruit high in the tree where it 
StUSRACESRL(@) 
' 
Liman 
TUNE, DISTANCE FROM 
h Delivery Height 
cannot be thinned or picked easily. The lower spurs will be 
SAFO 1S HE 
3 
shaded out by the lush foliage and new ones will not form. In 
short, you would have a fine shade tree but a very unsatisfactory 
fruit tree. The necessary pruning for good fruit production 
} 
Pruning Seca 
oun unscn @) 
ere, 
Plant Framework 
