nt 
he Rolling Stone 
havior of the stock market. 
music.” The economy of the record 
inding each other. 
= 
ay 
" 
| John and Paul can shoot looks at each 
other and exchange thoughts. John, full 
of Da Vinci-esque chutzpah and Lewis 
Carroll whimsy and Joycean logic, pro- 
jects authority, sovereignty. Can you dig 
that Paul is his princess? Paul giggles. 
John smiles like Oedipus. 
_ Paul is full of gestures, fluttering dis- 
solves. The two of them rule benignly. 
George maintains the court. He is si- 
lently called upon to approve their mu- 
sical approach to a song. And finally, 
the honorable Richard Starkey, a solid 
Magnet, whose patiently. churning guts 
hold the quartet inside the edges of pos- 
sibility. 
: 
_ On a more obvious level, they express 
joy. Little jokes, banter, cracks in the 
heavy atmosphere. It must be hard to 
resist the temptation to take oneself seri- 
ously as a Beatle, but they do it every 
time. When they are not addressing each 
other personally, they referred to them- 
selves not as We, but They. 
_ “What do They do now?” (George.) 
“Now They sing.” (Paul.) 
Mt na 
There’s responsive media and non-responsive 
nedia. Non-responsive media (e.g. most news- 
papers, magazines, all TV, movies) bear a simple 
elation to the market: the users buy or don’t 
buy the whole package; they have little influence 
on the piecemeal contents. Responsive media 
ar a complex relation to the market: users 
10t only influence the whole package, they 
largely determine the contents by their actions 
| 
in a market apart from the particular medium. 
One such responsive medium is the Wall Street 
journal (see p. 66), which is sculptured by the 
| 
edellad such is Rolling Stone, which owes its 
xistence and appeal to what’s happening in 
e intensely competitive market of popular 
mergent music. Whose music is popular (or 
becoming popular) is the result of a zillion 
individual choices: “that’s me, that’s my 
industry squirts and flows and masses like 
‘weather. Rolling Stone nets into that whole 
lynamic, provides picture/text supplemental 
information on the strongest music sources, 
es access information and some anticipation 
Wa reviews, and helps clarify the emergent 
errain on which the emergent dancers are 
oy 
pot 
oh Oh 
ales 
a 
Rolling Stone 
__ from: 
Jann Wenner, ed. — Subscription Department 
eS 
Rolling Stone 
(bi-weekly) 
746 Brannon Street 
$6 /yr. U.S. 
San Francisco, CA 94103 
$8 / yr. Canada 
$12/yr. overseas 
Just my luck: Paul McCartney, M.B.E. 
was standing there talking to four busi- 
ness-suited VIP’s when I walked in. He 
was also in the mood to be interrupted 
by a strange lady with a film property. 
I'd never seen him in person before. 
The impact was 
surprising. 
Diffused. 
Magical. Yes, he’s very pretty. Yes, he’s 
very charming. But who the hell is he? 
We talked small talk in that room, and 
I went 
away 
without 
script, 
totally 
Beatlized. 
Definition of Beatlized: In an instant, 
you are aware of a confusing magne- 
tism. You feel needed. Stoned. Flattered. 
Infatuated. Curious. You want to work 
there. 
interruption. 
The Beatles? 
“’I think it’s impossible 
for them to do a tour. Mick has said it 
before, but it’s worth repeating... the 
Beatles are primarily a recording group. 
“Even though they drew the biggest 
crowds of their era in North America, 
| think the Beatles had passed their per- 
- 
forming peak even before they were fa- 
mous. They are a recording band, while our 
scene is the concerts and many of our 
records were roughly made, on purpose. 
Our sort of scene is to have a really good 
time with the audience. 
“It's always been the Stones’ thing to 
get up On stage and kick the crap out 
of everything. We had three years of 
that before we made it, and we were 
Only just getting it together when we 
became famous. We still had plenty to 
do on stage and | think we still have. 
That's why the tour should be such a 
groove for us.” 
° 
In a Silent Way, Miles Davis (Colum- 
bia CS 9875) 
This is the kind of album that gives 
you faith in the future of music. 
It is 
not rock and roll, but it’s nothing stereo- 
typed as jazz either. All at once, it owes 
almost as much to the techniques de- 
veloped by rock improvisors in the last 
four years as to Davis’ jazz background. 
It is part of a transcendental new music 
mT 
ht 
i 
r 
ia 
wit 
it 
inl 
which flushes categories away and, while 
using musical devices from all styles and 
cultures, is defined mainly by its deep 
emotion and unaffected originality, 
mH 
2 iyi 
Improvising Jazz 
An exceptionally clear explanation and analysis with original == 
examples of the concepts basic to modern jazz composition 
and instrumental improvisation. But the title is deceptive. 
Modern jazz is 20th Century harmony superimposed on 
traditional types of chord progression, and this book should 
be of use to any student (or teacher) of musical practice. 
The fundamental ideas of chord structure, notation, chord 
progression, modulation, and variation of motivic and 
thematic material, including a simplified chord symbolism, 
are presented in edible portions. 
The discussion of the more 
exotic concepts of chord/scale relationships, chord super- 
imposition, and functional chord substitution, are among 
the best | have seen, including college texts. 
This book 
is a solid value that becomes more and more useful with 
every rereading. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Peter Lynn Sessions] 
Jazz has brought about a renaissance in improvisation, providing a 
style which is conducive to spontaneous creation by utilizing 
length and form (usually 32 measures in length, with an A-A-B-A 
structure), fairly standardized instrumentation, steady tempi, 
consistent and logical harmonies, stylized melodies and rhythms, 
and even an established order of introductions, statements of 
themes, sequence of soloists, and codas and endings. Such an 
from: 
established framework as we find in jazz improvisation is as 
useful to the jazz player as the twelve tone system is to the 
atonalist composer. The characteristics of the style make for 
07632 
swift decisions, enabling the music to move along without 
Improvising Jazz 
standard musical elements, such as 4/4 time, songs of uniform 
Jerry Coker 
1964; 115 pp. 
: $1.95 postpaid 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Englewood Cliffs, N. J. 
What is the soloist doing when he attempts to “build’’? Actually the 
ideal process hardly ever takes place—that is, it is hardly ever the 
case that a conscientious soloist plays a thinking solo for a hard- 
listening hearer—but when this does happen, the key process is 
memory. The soloist has to establish for te listener what the 
important POINT, the motif if you like, is, and then show as 
much as he can of what it is that he sees in that motif, extending 
. 
the relationships of it to the basic while never giving the feeling 
he has forgotten it. In other words, | believe that it should be a 
basic principle to use repetition, rather than variety—but not too 
much. The listener is constantly making predictions; actual 
infinitesimal predictions as to whether the next event will be a 
repetition of something, or something different. The player is 
constantly either confirming or denying these predictions in the 
listener’s mind. As nearly as we can tell (Kraehenbuehl at Yale 
and |), the listener must come out right about 50% of the time— 
if he is too successful in predicting, he will be bored; if he is too 
unsuccessful, he will give up and call the music ‘‘disorganized.” 
The tonic chords are like magnets, tugging at the other types of 
chords, giving the dominants and minor sevenths tension that must 
be resolved. The tonic is the only chord which offers complete[ 
rest. The dominants are so near to the tonic that they are intense 
and powerful, and must be resolved to the tonic. The minor 
sevenths, which function as subdominants, are remote from the 
tonic and act as a secondary tonic, offering repose, but not 
inertness. Therefore, subdominants lead to dominants, which 
move to tonics or back to subdominants. Once the progression 
reaches the tonic it usually ends or starts another cycle by 
moving out to a subdominant. 
In further analyzing the blues, we find the tune to be twelve 
measures long, and in the key of C major. (For the present, let it 
suffice to say that we guess it to be in C major because it starts and 
ends on a C major seventh chord.) Since there is no given melody 
in Figure 1, we cannot determine the motivic construction; how- 
ever, notice that the progression seems basically to contain four 
measures in C, then an implied feeling of F for two measures, fol- 
lowed by six measures of C chords and chords which are closely 
related to the key of C. These sections might be labeled A-B-A. We 
will discuss key modulations in a later section, when you have di- 
gested the terminology and information needed for such analysis. 
The term b/wes, in jazz, usually denotes a chord progression twelve 
bars in length, and also describes its mood. 
= eS 
es ee 
é rahe 
CM7 
: : = = : CM7 
CM7 
3 
Ninth, eleventh, and thirteenth chords are produced by super- 
imposing third intervals above the seventh chord, thereby adding 
color and a thicker texture to the seventh chord without changing 
its function. This practice is commonly used in jazz, because the 
extension of the seventh chord provides more harmonic choices. 
Note that the ninth degree above the tonic corresponds to the 
second degree, except that it is written an octave higher; in like 
manner the eleventh and thirteenth correspond to a fourth (aug- 
mented fourth, in this instance) and sixth scale degree, respectively. 
These superimpositions have a certain potential for alterations, as 
do the third, fifth, and seventh of the seventh chords. It is up to 
you to remember which types of chords can use ninths, elevenths, 
and thirteenths, and which of these superimpositions can be altered 
in certain chords. The superimposition is considered unaltered if 
it is within the scale that accompanies the chord. 
+11 
9 
3 
=== 
735 
