If you read this book, you'll know more about metalworking 
_ [Suggested by Claudio Marzollo. 
for any process is listed and described. No prices are given, 
ery ata Rare. csscsssssessrsenvsersanscssesnenss 15 CARAT PARCEL, 
oe 
aan 
Metal Techniques for Craftsmen 
than just about anybody you know. International in scope, it 
covers an incredible collection of techniques from many countries 
and cultures. The various techniques are presented with a 
complete set of instructions for each one and are illustrated 
by excellent photographs, often of native craftsmen doing 
their thing. Tools are described and illustrated in detail. 
Everything is described in detail. Reading this book will 
take you right up to that point where you‘l/ have to do it 
awhile yourself to get into it any further. 
This isa 
real assembly of diverse information some of it hard 
to find, and a metal-crafter-jeweller should be into new 
things within an hour of getting his hands on it. This 
is one of those rare and super books written by someone 
that wanted to lay his trip on others. Well worth the 
money. The “definitive text’ as they say. 
Reviewed by Jay Baldwin] 
Metal Techniques for Craftsmen 
Oppi Untracht 
1968; 509 pp. 
$ 19.95 postpaid 
from: 
Doubleday & Co. 
501 Franklin. 
Garden City, N. Y. 11531 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Greek bronze wire fibula, ‘‘spectacle type,’’ tenth-eighth 
centuries B.C. (Geometrical Period). Back view. Length: 
5 5/16 inches. This pin, including the pinstem and catch, 
is made entirely of one continuous piece of wire. 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. Fletcher Fund, 1937. 
Sterling silver necklace utilizing 18-gauge metal, by Mary Ann 
Scherr. Length: 16% inches; each unit: 3% inches by % inch. 
The intaglio pattern was creatéd with an etching solution of 
half nitric acid and half water and was then oxidized. 
Electroplating and electroforming equipment: 
a simplified 
arrangement for small! scale use by craftsmen: 
1. Selinium 
rectifier. 2. Anode and cathode wire. 3. Electrician’s’ 
clips. 4. Bus bars. 5. Wood bus bar rack. 6. Electric hotplate, 
two burner. 7. Pyrex glass beakers: the first contains the article 
suspended from the anode bus bar for cleaning, the second is for 
rinsing, the third is the plating beaker with the anode plate and 
the article suspended from the cathode bar to be plated. 
SCR SoBe 
sie 
eet ay 
“ 
: 
j 
: 
Saunders Casting Equipment and Supplies 
Adhesive Products 
Silicone molding rubber (cast anything!) at 
low prices & Monzini epoxy based casting 
compounds. 20th Century materials. 
This catalog looks to have everything you’d need to get into 
casting and mold making. The equipment you would need 
but the company is obviously not a discount house. A 
person thinking abaut getting into casting metal could 
learn a Jot just by looking at this catalog. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Jeff Schlanger] 
Catalog 
[Reviewed by Jay Baldwin] 
free from: 
Alexander Saunders & Co., Inc. 
P.O. Box 265 
Cold Spring, N. Y. 10516 
h 
s 
Gem Guild 
/t looks like they have nice stuff. | have no idea as to 
their reputation. 
They do have rare things to sell, and 
the catalog appears to be of the sort one finds printed 
by nuts in the field who know and love their bag. 
Brochure & pricelist 
free from: 
Adhesive Products Corp. 
1660 Boone Avenue 
Bronx, N. Y. 10460 
[Suggested by Carol Guyton Goodell. 
The 
Hery Rare 
—-Reviewed by Jay Baldwin] 
S100 THE PARCEL 
THOR VRCELS, $22.00 
1, Pt, Kit (1!/> Ibs.) 
GEM SPESSARTITE 
GARNET: The queen uf garnets in 
Catalog 
(25 
cles eat seer apes glad eter a ie a 
Rubber Hardener __ 
mi 
___..._.. $ 6.00 = 
KARE GREEN 
QUARTZ: Startling Sarrened material 
free 
from Brazil... 
aitieat 
Fx 
EL 
NZINI 
IMPERIAL LAPIS LAZULI: Splendid intense rayal blu, 
Rec 
4530 MONZINI IRO. 
and clean. 
Afghanistan, Well shaped and sizable pieves. 
rom: 
‘ 
204K AP PARCEL 
The Gem Guild 
GEM RHODOLITE GARNET: Stream polished erystals of 
B 
713 
5 
allons a ae $ 50 
pound 
the finest pode seemat nee. 
1 CARAT PARCEL 
es Valley 
Gataasan 
a 
MASSACHUSETTS DATOLITE: Fine facet sections o 
ueVatley, 
1 gallon SAAD 
60 per pound 
silver ornamental medallion on a brass plate in the 
*“‘nagas’’ or ‘‘swami”’ process of metal decoration. 
’ Consisting of 1 Ib. ADRUB RTV and 
lb. ADRUB RTV§ 
SAND CASTING OF 
ALUMINUM. Sand casting is 
the best-known and most 
requently used casting process. 
(For a procedural discussion, 
see page 325.) The method 
used for aluminum is the same 
as that used for other non- 
ferrous metals, with care 
taken for temperature control. 
In small sand castings, a section 
of 3/16 of an inch is considered 
the minimum possible. The 
surface of sand castings 
depends for its character on the 
fineness of the sand used. For 
large castings, coarser sand is 
advisable. Aluminum sand 
castings generally have smoother 
surfaces than other sand cast 
metals, partly because of the 
lower melting point required 
of the metal, and partly because 
the sand does not burn into the 
surface of the casting. 
Forge welding is the oldest welding process. Wrought iron and 
mild steel can be welded in forging by heating the parts to be joined 
till they are brilliant white-hot and emitting sparks. The metal at 
this point has reached a condition of surface plasticity. The parts are 
then brought into contact quickly, on top of each other, and 
hammered together. They fuse into one unit. Butt joints can be 
welded by first upsetting the ends to be joined, to thicken them, then 
reheating the ends to welding temperature, placing them together, 
and hammering them. The original thickness is maintajfed. 
If 
the metal is absolutely clean, free of oil or cinder, no flux is 
necessary, because the slag in wrought iron acts as a flux. The 
force to be exerted by the hammer depends on the mass and 
size of the parts being joined. 
GENERAL TOOLS AND SUPPLIES (NEW YORK) 
Allcraft Tool and Supply Co., Inc., 15 West 45th Street, New York, N. Y. 10036 
Anchor Tool Co., 12 John Street, New York, N. Y. 10007 
Craftool, Inc., 396 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 10013 
Gamzon Bros., 15 West 47th Street, New York, N. Y. 10036 
Paul H. Gesswein & Co., Inc, 235 Park Avenue South, New York, N. Y. 10003 
1. Shor Co., Inc., 64 West 48th Street, New York, N. Y. 10036 
Standard Diamond Tool Co., Inc., 71 West 47th Street, New York, N. Y. 10036 
John Sells and Sons, 66 West Broadway, New York, N. Y. 
EASTERN STATES EXCEPT NEW YORK 
Craft Service, 337-341 University Avenue, Rochester 7, N. Y. Tools and Supplies 
William Dixon, Inc., 32 East Kinney Street, Newark 1, N. J. 
Tools and supplies 
American Handicrafts Co, 45-49 South Harrison Street, East Orange, N. J. 
T. B. Hagstoz & Son, 709 Sansom Street, Philadelphia 6, Pa. 
B. A. Ballou and Co., Inc., 61 Peck Street, Providence, R. |. Jewelry findings 
Capitol Tool and Findings Co., Inc., 100 Delaine, Providence 9, R. |. 
W. R. Cobb Co., 101 Sabin Street, Providence, R. 1. 
Jewelry findings 
Manin Jewelers Supply Co., Inc., 373 Washington Street, Boston 8, Mass. 
C. W. Somers Co., 387 Washington Street, Boston-8, Mass. 
Jewelry supplies 
General Findings, Inc., Attleboro, Mass. Jewelry findings in all metals 
Arts and Crafts Distributors, !nc. (Showroom and Service Center) 
9520 Baltimore Avenue, College Park, Md- 
Bergen Handcraft Supplies, 300 S. W. 17th Avenue, Miami, Fla. 
MIDWEST AND SOUTH 
Brodhead Garret & Co., 4560 East 71st Street, Cleveland 5, O. Tools and supplies. 
Ohio Jeweler’s Supply, Inc., 1000 Schofield Building, Ninth and Euclid Ave., 
Cleveland 15, O. 
Snapvent Company, 1107 West Cumberland Avenue, Knoxville, Tenn. 
Tools and supplies 
C. R. Hill Co., 35 West Grand River, Detroit 26, Mich. Metals and tools 
Bartlett & Co., Inc., 5 South Wabash Avenue, Room 819 
Chicago, Illinois Small tools, and jewelry supplies. 
The Jewelry Craftsman Co., 139 North Wabash Avenue, Chicago 2, III. 
Findings 
Ernest Linick Co., 5 South Wabash Avenue, Chicago 3, III. Jeweler’s supplies 
C. and E. Marshal! Co., 1445 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, III. 
Sax Crafts, 1101 North 3rd Street, Milwaukee, Wis. Metals, tools and findings 
Gagers Handicraft, 1024 Nicollet Avenue, Minneapolis 3, Minn. Tools 
Norvell Marcum Co., 223 East Third, Fulsa 3, Okla. Hand tools, jeweler’s supplies. 
New Orleans Jeweler’s Supply Co., 208 Chartres Street, New Orleans, La. 
Southland Jeweler’s Supply Co., 213 Baronne Street, New Orleans, La. 
WEST 
Baker Platinum (Division of Engelhard Industries), 760 Market Street, 
San Francisco, Calif. 
Jeweler’s supplies, findings and metal 
Miller Tool and Supply Co., 1044 Folsom Street, San Francisoo, Calif. 
Nordman & Aurich, 657 Mission Street, San Francisco, Calif. 
Tools, jeweler’s supplies and findings 
Williams & Peterson, 130 Geary Street, San Francisco, Calif. 
J. J. Jewelcraft, 2732 Colorado Boulevard, Los Angeles 41, Calif. 
Jeweler’s and lapidary’s tools and supplies 
Grieger and Co., 1633 East Walnut Street, Pasadena 4, Calif. 
Tools and supplies, lapidary equipment. 
L. A. Clark Co., 1417 4th Avenue, Seattle, Wash. 
[Untracht also lists sources for power tools, chemicals, gems, 
abrasives, casting supplies, welding supplies, foundries, wood, 
plating equipment. Also British suppliers. ] 
