a 
ae 
’ 
* 
Economic Analysis 
These two volumes by Boulding are tough and tedious, let’s face 
it, unless you genuinely dig abstract concepts, intricate 
mathematical equations, and weird curves on charts. 
So why bother? Here’s one why: even if economics seems 
immoral, along with capitalism, and though you may think 
money is evil, you won’t know how the world works until 
you are more than half smart about our economic system. 
Another why: it is a constant surprise to me to discover 
that economics—as defined and portrayed by men like 
Boulding—represents one of the most artistically creative 
accomplishments of civilized man: a “whole system” 
par 
excellence. 
To be sure, there is a poignant irony in 
observing that greedy types in our society have largely 
monopolized the art of economics; perhaps as the gentle 
types begin to take a growing and serious interest in the 
subject we can anticipate a far better world in which to 
live. 
A hyper-scholar in the field of economics will want more 
than Boulding offers. A “new economics” is already 
emerging, encompassing a cost-benefit orientation to 
problems-of environmental pollution, overpopulation, 
and social misbehavior, etc.; and Boulding’s books 
pre-date this new trend. Further, the fascinating field 
of money and banking (which is every bit as elegant a 
subject as dome architecture) is not covered by 
Boulding. 
But Boulding will take you deep into the pleasures of 
demand, supply, consumption, prices, commodities, 
labor, wages, rent, trading, balance sheets, and economic 
organizations. 
You may exit from this trip with a lot more 
information on wheat crops than you care to use (man 
should not and can not live by “wheat economics” alone), 
but you will be unsurpassable when you lead your next 
confrontation into a dirty capitalist’s office to demand 
a better world. 
[Reviewed by Richard Raymond] 
We may now define economics tentatively as the study of how 
society is organized through acts of exchange. 
[Vol. 1] 
It seems that what Mrs. Jones has really bought is not merely $1.60 
worth of butter, but 40 cents’ worth of retailing, 20 cents’ worth of 
wholesaling, 20 cents’ worth of transport, 10 cents’ worth of butter- 
making, 25 cents’ worth of cattle feed, 10 cents’ worth of depreciation 
of cows, 15 cents’ worth of hired farm labor, and 20 cents’ worth of 
farmer’s labor. 
(Vol. 1] 
4 
Supply and Demand 
A briefer, more classic, and earlier account of economic theory 
is Henderson’s Supply and Demand. 
Bear in mind that economists are created by economies, 
not vice versa very much. Who does create economies? 
You. /f you don’t like the one you’re in, invent and perform 
a better one. Do it informed or do it innocent, either one 
beats passive complaint. 
[Suggested by Steve Baer] 
1. 
When, at the price ruling, demand exceeds supply, the 
price tends to rise. Conversely when supply exceeds 
demand the price tends to fall. 
il. 
Arise in price tends, sooner or later, to decrease 
demand and to increase supply. Conversely a 
fall in price tends, sooner or later, to increase 
demand and to decrease supply. 
lll. 
Price tends to the level at which demand is equal 
to supply. 
e 
It has become an axiom of business men that, while Governments 
can manage with more or less competence a safe and routine busi- 
ness like a Postal Service, their success would be unlikely to prove 
conspicuous in undertakings where the element of risk is great. 
There, it is said, we owe everything in the past to the enterprise 
of individual men (for even joint-stock companies have not been 
notable as pioneers) adventuring their own fortunes in accordance 
with their own unfettered judgment. 
Supply and Demand 
Hubert Henderson 
1922; 142 pp. 
$1 .35 postpaid 
from: 
University of Chicago 
Press 
. 
11030 South 
Langley Avenue 
Chicago, IIlinois 
60628 
ea peget ” 
z Boettan eg “ 
or WHOLE 
EARTH 
CATALOG 
| to the left lands up at Py. 
Exchange cannot take place unless there is specialization, for there 
would be nothing to exchange; but specialization without exchange 
would be useless, for the tailor would starve and the farmer go naked. 
Exchange without specialization is impossible; specialization without 
exchange is silly. 
[Vol 1.] 
e 
An exchange is not so much an equality (two pounds of butter=$1.60) 
as two inequalities. Mrs. Jones thinks two pounds of butter are worth 
more to her than $1.60, and the storekeeper thinks that $1.60 is worth 
more to him than two pounds of butter. 
[Vol. 1} 
The more of anything we have (under the condition that the quantities 
of all the other things we have remain the same), the less we want more 
of it. If we had only two ounces of sugar a week, we should greatly 
welcome an extra ounce. 
If, however, we had a hundred ounces of 
sugar a week, an extra ounce would make very little pied iped wie 
Vol. | 
Things are valuable because somebody thinks they are, and for no other 
reason whatever. 
e 
There is indeed a dismal theorem, that if the only thing that can check 
the growth of population is starvation and misery, then population 
will grow until there is enough misery and starvation to stop its 
growth. Furthermore, there is an even more dismal theorem, which 
| have called the utterly dismal theorem, which states that if only 
starvation and misery can check the growth of population, then any 
improvement in the techniques of production will have the ultimate 
effect of increasing the total sum of human misery, for it will merely 
enable a larger population to exist in misery and ie Nir 
; 
Vol. | 
@ 
DYNAMICS OF NEGATIVELY ELASTIC SUPPLY 
Fig. 64. 
“Multiple Equilibria with Simultaneous Adjustments 
It is interesting to apply this model to the case of the negatively 
elastic supply curve of Fig. 62. This is done in Fig. 64. {twill be 
seen by examining the dynamic paths (lines marked with arrows) 
that the apparent Walrasian equilibrium at P is in fact unstable, and 
the two Marshallian equilibria at Ph and P; are in fact stable. No 
matter how close a dynamic path comes toward P, say, from below 
to the left, it must cut SS’ vertically from below and must swing 
round to cut DD’ horizontally from the left. There is some line 
on the figure such as HPK which is the watershed: from all points 
to the left of this line the dynamic path eventually takes us to 
Pi, or at least as close to it as we wish, and from all points to the 
right of it the dynamic paths all move toward P;. At any point on 
# 
HP or KP the dynamic path moves to P, but this is a path of 
unstable final equilibrium in the sense that any random movement 
off the path to the right eventually lands up at P; and any movement 
(Vol.1] 
j * 
: Fortune 
/ started reading Fortune magazine after reading a lot of 
Buckminster Fuller because it was the only periodical with 
| regular informative articles on his level of thinking (world 
i shipping, construction, new industrial processes, natural 
resources, etc.). What | found was editing and reporting 
that made the contents of most popular American 
magazines look like so much paste. 
Fortune 
$14 /yr (monthly) 
from: 
Fortune 
540 North Michigan Avenue 
Chicago, ||linois 60611 
Many business leaders believe that 
they live in a racist society, that wealth 
is distributed unfairly, and that 
the nation needs spiritual regeneration. 
Most of all, they want no more wars. 
4 
A pure barter economy only seems to be possible where exchanges 
are rare and the commodities exchanged are highly diverse. As soon 
as anything like a market develops—that is, frequent and repeated 
exchanges of more or less standardized commodities—the principle 
of arbitrage will operate to bring the exchange ratios of various 
commodities into rough consistency with each other. When this 
happens it becomes possible to use one commodity as a measure 
of value, and a convention arises whereby prices are quoted in 
terms of the standard commodity, even though this may not 
participate in all exchanges. A great variety of such standard 
commodities have been used in different societies—cattle 
(‘pecuniary’”’ comes from the latin word Pecus, cow), 
seashells, beads, stones, tobacco, cloth, grain, and all the 
common metals. ... 
The medium of exchange in a society, 
then, is that asset or group of assets which is wanted primarily 
because it is readily exchangeable. This attribute of ready 
exchangeability is called “‘liquidity.”’ 
{Vol. 11] 
Economic Analysis 
Vol. 1: Microeconomics, 720 pp, $10.50 postpaid 
Vol. 2: Macroeconomics, 280 pp, $7.50 postpaid 
Kenneth E. Boulding 
‘ 
1941, 1948, 1955, 1966 
from: 
Harper & Row 
49 East 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
_ or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
ae 
; 
The Wall Street Journal 
Far out. A daily newspaper with extensive reporting on sure- 
enough news. Not who murdered whom, but that a Free 
University in the Bay Area’s midpeninsula is full of energy 
and new forms. Not what Mia Farrow thinks this month 
~ 
but a thorough appraisal of the occult market (mystical book 
sales up 100% in the last 3 years). In other words, the 
reporting of new trends, not old stories with new names. 
The Wall Street Journal /s jn the thick of the stock market 
and kept honest by that involvement. 
You don’t have to be 
in the market to use the paper. 
‘THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. 
Hard Trovelin™ 
tee 
What's News— 
7 
The Wall Street 
Journal 
$30 /yr. (daily); Overseas $42 
. 
or 
‘ 
from: 
- 
The Wal! Street Journal 
30 Broad Street 
New York, N. Y. 10004 
The Wall Street Journal 
1701 Page Mill Road 
Palo Alto, CA 94304 
e
l
Curta Calculator 
The Curta Calculator (made in Lichtenstein, no less) is 
one of those machine things that it would be nice to 
just have one around because it is so beautiful. 
It’s tiny, 
but made in a way that discourages errors. 
It'll take poor 
. 
i climates without failure. Adds, subtracts, multiplies, 
| divides, squares, cubes, takes square root, accumulates 
multiplications, multiplies or divides by constants. 
f Rally navigators dig em, but so will anyone that needs a 
1 small calculator. Super in every respect. I’ve never 
: 
talked to anyone that would part with his. Two models, 
$125 and $165, both about 2%” x 3%”. 
sted and reviewed by Jay Baldwin] 
[Sugg 
Literature 
free 
from: 
The Curta Company 
Van Nuys, CA 
