LIFt Science Library 
Generally, how much space we give an item is a measure of 
our regard for the item. 
This time we’re enlarging the Science 
Library review because we feel even more strongly that it is 
an outstanding series. Most direct route to a handle on the 
slippery world. All of the books are well edited, illustrated 
and authored. 
You pick one up, and hours later you‘re 
still there on the john or wherever helplessly engrossed in 
a diagram explaining the design of musical instruments. 
Most popular science books are badly behind the times. 
This 
series puts special emphasis on recent developments 
The LIFE Science Library costs about $4.50 per book, plus 
postage. You get on their list and they send you a book every 
month or so and you either send the book back or pay up. Some 
are better than others, but we haven’t sent one back yet. 
LIFE Science Library 
from: 
Time-Life Books, Inc. 
Retail Sales Dept. 
540 N. Michigan Avenue 
Chicago, Illinois 60611 
- FOOD AND 
NUTRITION 
AE KOENCE nay 
e 
ct As. 
SOUND 
Si 
AND HEARING 
PIECES OF A picture 
4 
The object of this perception test is to fill in 
the missing pieces so that a familiar picture 
appears. 
If the test remains puzzling 
at nor- 
mal reading distance, try it again from three or 
four feet before looking at the answer. 
as 
Ae AIUNCE LIBR 
Light and Vision 
The Physician 
ATOMS FOR LIFE 
The skeleton shown here is outfitted with both an artificial 
heart (center) and a mock-up of a portable atomic-power 
pack (lower right). The pack is designed to hold radioactive 
drive the piston of a pump which in turn would create a 
regular beat in the synthetic heart, forcing blood to flow 
throughout the body. 
SS 
——__ Weather 
= 
A Global Gear Train Operated by the Transfer of Heat 
Japu pue esioy Vv 
WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PHRASE? 
At first glance, seemingly nothing. But with 
closer reading the repetition of the word THE 
becomes obvious. Because we generally read 
rapidly in word patterns rather than slowly 
a word at a time, it is easy for the eye to skip 
over the extra THE and register the familiar 
phrase “correctly.” 
Light and Vision 
Although Jupiter’s cloud cover is constant, most of 
the cloud markings we see there are quite transient, 
and disappear after a few days or weeks. However, 
there is one puzzling formation which has remained 
visible, on and off, for at least 130 years. This is the 
famous Great Red Spot, an oval shaped mass lying 
parallel to the planet's equator and not far from it, 
in the Southern Hemisphere. The Great Red Spot 
is considerably larger than our entire earth, yet it 
drifts around Jupiter like a gigantic raft; it has made 
several revolutions of the planet during the century 
that it has been under intense observation. The most 
popular theory holds that the Great Red Spot is a huge 
meteorological disturbance. 
materials that release heat to generate steam; the steam would 
a) 
ik Hy 
While cooking makes protein, fat and carbohydrate foods far more 
useful to mankind, it does not do the same for the remaining two 
nutrient groups, the minerals and the vitamins. They would serve 
man better, in fact, if cooking had never been invented. They do 
not need to be cooked, for they are used by the body in almost 
the same forms they take in raw food, and cooking may deplete or 
destroy them. Cooking with bicarbonate of soda, which is often 
added to vegetables to improve their color, creates an alkaline 
solution that accelerates losses of vitamin C. Worst of all is the use 
of large amounts of water in cooking; the water dissolves, or leaches, 
essential minerals and vitamins and they are left behind in the pot. 
e 
The dangers of leaching were pointed out as recently as the 1920's, 
when public-health officials were puzzled by the strange pattern of 
malnutrition in the South. !mpoverished sharecroppers there ate 
poorly—grits, corn mush and molasses, greens, with a bit of fatback. 
The diet for white and Negro sharecroppers was much the same. 
But, 
oddly enough, the whites suffered more severely from deficiency 
diseases; the Negroes, also ill-fed, were relatively unaffected. The 
mystery was'not solved until the scientists learned that both whites 
and Negroes boiled their staple foods for long periods to improve the 
palatability of the somewhat tasteless provender. But then the whites 
threw away the cooking water; using the so-called potlikker was 
socially unacceptable. With the discarded liquid went the nutrients 
that had been leached away 
by long boiling. The Negroes, uninfluenced 
by the social stigma attached to potlikker, drank it and used it to 
soak corn bread, recapturing the essential vitamins and minerals. 
Plants 
- 
TWO LENSES IN ONE. 
Light and Vision 
Bifocals—introduced to America in the 18th Century by Benjamin 
Franklin—help older people with rigid lens structure to focus at 
, 
both near and far distances. The upper half of the spectacle 
lens gives slight correction for distant viewing. The lower half is 
for close-up work; it provides the increased refraction needed to 
compensate for the increasing rigidity—and the inability to focus— 
of the aging lens. 
hotly 
Way, i Jaster 
ls gary, ut ent 
4 Servings 
8 ip eepaily 
THE EVOLUTION OF CORN to the modern 
fruitful version required 7,000 years of radica' 
change, as indicated by these three samples. 4 
The inch-long ear of wild maize (/eftj—a 
Central American plant now extinct—dates 
from around 5200 B.C.; it has only eight rows’ 
of kernels with five to six kernels on each row. 
By 500 B.C., Mexicans were growing 
four-inch-long ears called Nal-Tel (center) that 
had some 11 rows of small kernels per cob. 
Today, one of the most widely cultivated corn 
plants in Mexico is Chalquefio (right),-eight 
inches long, with'17 rows of narrow kernels. 
See 
450X506 
asanea 
, K 
ip 
% ¢ 
2 
Ys. 
rd 
Plants 
— 
The complex oscilloscope trace reveals the immsnse number of components 
in aviolin note. Despite its jagged appearance, the note does not sound 
jerky; the time interval between the large peaks 
is less than one five-hundredth 
of a second, and it is very much less than that between the smaller peaks. 
