‘Hitch-hiking in Europe 
_ This primer will prepare you for some of the 
_ vagaries of the road in Europe or elsewhere. 
There is nothing much in it that you wouldn’t 
__ learn soon enough for yourself—its main point 
being that there is no substitute for the experi- 
ence of hitch-hiking. But the book is useful 
for its good sense, humor, and prespective— 
written in classic hitching style—a taste of 
the road which may help you through a down 
and out scene or two. In addition there are 
numerous tips on getting to Europe and back, 
where to go, meeting people, sleeping arrange- 
ments, other means of transportation, etc.— 
all as related to the hitch-hiker. 
[Reviewed by Joe Bonner] 
APPENDIX 
t 
Recommended Guidebooks: 
Br 
Let's Go, The Student Guide to Europe 
z 
Europe on $5 a Day 
f “8 
Recommended Maps: 
: 
available everywhere) 
Other Material: 
i 
List of U. S. embassies 
List of American Express offices 
Pocket dictionaries 
Your special advantage is the experience of uncer- 
tainty, which you buy at a bargain rate. Uncertainty 
keeps you on the qui vivre, the best stance for seeing 
and learning. You don’t know who you'll meet, what 
experiences you'll have, which places you'll see off 
the rut, what things you'll learn that aren't in the 
guidebooks (this one included). And despite the 
difficulties, getting started and keeping going is not 
that hard. Your troubles will usually offer you no 
alternative but to cope with them. And you do! 
Rooms can be had cheaply anywhere in Europe any 
time of the year. Get them simple, without bath, 
but with breakfast. One hears so much crap about 
the need for reservations. 
| suppose it’s true for 
_ American-type tourists, but working-men’s rooms, 
dent's quarters, plain but clean hotels, and private 
homes are always available to you as a non-gold-plated 
human being. The main railroad station of a large 
city usually has clean cheap rooms. 
_ 
Whenever hitching is especially bad, try making it 
at gas stations, or anywhere else that personal con- 
tacts are possible—restaurants, truckstops, rest stations, 
Picnic areas, campsites, etc. 
> 
Who To Go With. If you're going to go with anyone 
at 
all, 
the answer is unquestionably—go with a girl. 
f you're a guy, she'll be your passport to lots of 
les. Take good care of her. If you’re a girl, you've 
got the whole gamut of choice: 
a guy or another 
girls From the standpoint of rides alone, you'll be 
_ 
better off with the girl. 
Another essential is a good map. See the appendix 
for some recommended ones. 
In Europe, you'll have 
to know what's along the route you’re taking to your 
destination. To merely know your destination is 
not enough. You'll have to make quick decisions at 
times about alternate routes suddenly presented by 
a stopped—and waiting— motorist. Maybe some 
_ Welshman will offer you a ride to Pwilheli, but 
doesn’t know himself if it’s on the way to Amlwch, 
your destination. 
in Europe: an informal guidebook 
ae saa 
from: 
he 
F 
Ed Buryn 
Be eorteat 
Bio pee 31123 
te 
San Francisco, CA 94131 
MS 
aie 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
‘tote 
Michelin Guides in general (especially good 
because they're written for motorists) 
na, 
Kummerly and Frey (Swiss mapmaker— 
Ber 
| 
; 
Youth Hostel Directory (obtain from |YH) 
a 
Phrase books, such as the Dover Publications 
x 
d 
New Horizons World Guide 
Considering the areas covered by most travel or tourist 
guides, this one is by far the most inclusive. 
/t covers 
| every conceivable area (131 countries) and almost every 
# small bit of information you may ever need. For example, 
where to get an English speaking doctor for $15.00 at 
3:30 in the morning. 
[Reviewed by Mary McCabe] 
SN 
New Horizons World Guide 
Pan American Airways 
1951... 1969; 831 pp. 
$3.95 postpaid 
from: 
Simon and Schuster, Inc. 
650 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10020 
Hervection 1909 
NEW HORIZONS, 
~ WORLD 
GUIDE 
>} word » 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
MEDICAL CARE ABROAD 
Intermedic (777 Third Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10017), is an 
Organization formed to enable members while traveling to obtain 
immediate help from highly qualified, English-speaking physicians. 
Members are assured that professional fees will not exceed $8 for 
the first office visit, $10 for the first house call at the hotel, or $15 
for an emergency nighttime hotel call. Intermedic provides a 
Directory of 340 participating physicians in 174 cities in 80 countries 
f 
Overseas with their day and night telephone numbers. The Directory 
also has pages which should be filled in at home with the member's 
medical history, allergies and the like. 
Membership in Intermedic is solddirectly from its headquarters, and 
through travel agents. Annual dues are $5 for a Single Membership 
and $9 for a Family Membership. 
The Medical Passport Foundation, Inc., 35 East 69th Street, 
New York, New York 10021 (Telephone 212-879-9470) publishes 
a System of Medical Records which includes a wallet-size Medical 
Passport, an invaluable aid for travelers. 
|t contains all facts 
concerning the individual's medical history—emergency information, 
laboratory findings, X-ray reports, allergies, sensitivities to drugs, 
‘ diagnoses and treatments, lens prescription, electrocardiograms. 
Its plastic case holds other travel documents; costs $2.75; for child, 
| $3. Used by U.S. State Department personnel. Complete 
information from the Foundation headquarters. 
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR 
UNITED STATES CITIZENS . 
. 
. Passport, smallpox vaccination 
certificate needed. No visa is required for 72-hour transit stop. A 
tourist visa is good for 60 days. A cholera vaccination is required of 
x 
Travelers’ Directory 
Works like this: you have a 56-page directory of other 
outlaws you can stay with during your travels, and since 
you're in the book (or you don’t get one) they have 
access to you. Send a 100-word description of yourself 
and your services and $3 is how to get into it. Listings 
are 2/5 female, 3/5 male. 
: 
[Suggested by David Schoengold] 
Travelers’ Directory 
$3.00 
postpaid 
from: 
Peter Kacalanos 
51-02 39th Avenue 
Woodside, New York 11377 
The International Atlas 
| Reference Guide for 
visitors from infected areas and is recommended for round-the-world 
and round-Asia tourists. 200 cigarettes, 50 cigars or % Ib. tobacco, 
and 1 fifth of liquor are permitted duty free, 3 fifths if visitor is 
staying two weeks or longer. Tax exemption forms are available at 
shops (see SHOPS AND STORES). 
DRUGSTORES... The American Pharmacy and Rexall Drug Co. in 
Tokyo stock American products. Japanese pharmacies have excellent, 
cheaper local toiletries and medicines. 
ELECTRIC CURRENT ... 100 volts, A.C., 50 cycles in Tokyo and 
Eastern Japan, 60 cycles in Osaka and Western Japan. No transformer 
plugs are necessary. 
FAUNA ... 
Boar, deer, pheasant, quail, snipe and wild goose in 
Central and Southern Japan, bear in Hokkaido. 
FLORA... Cherry and plum trees blossom each spring. The 
national flower, the chrysanthemum, is widely displayed. Many 
other flowers and shrubs are grown and tended with great care. 
Tea plantations cover the low hills of Southern Honshu. Persimmions, 
loquat, figs and delicious tangerines called mikan are grown almost 
everywhere. Japanese strawberries and apples are huge and tasty. 
Travelers 
Let your fingers do the travelling. 
This excellent new atlas 
from Rand McNally features fine map design, international 
perspective (not over-oriented to America or to the English 
language), and a series of maps of major cities of the planet 
all on the same scale. 
[Suggested by John Holt] 
The International Atlas 
1969; 558 pp. 
$34.95 postpaid 
($29.95 before Jan. 1, 1970) 
from: 
Rand McNally 
P. O. Box 7600 
Chicago, Ili. (0680 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
340 
Fielding, Temple and Nancy. FIELDING’S SUPER-ECONOMY GUIDE TO 
EUROPE. Dell, 1968. 880p. 4 x 7 paper. $1.95. 
There was a ready audience awaiting this guidebook when it first appeared in 1967— 
in fact, over 100,000 copies were sold in the first month after publication. One reascn 
If you're going to some partic- 
ular place in the world and 
want to know about the guide 
books etc. for that place, go 
to a library and find this 
excellent annotated biblio- 
graphy 
of all travel books in 
print. 
must be that American tourists support the publisher’s claim that the annually revised 
FIELDING’S TRAVEL GUIDE TO EUROPE (see 339) is “the bible of travel.” 
This new, budget-oriented offspring has the same jam-packed, pun-riddled prose and 
don’t-spend-your-money-here-but-here approach of the older, standard work; but, 
without duplicating the information in that book, Fielding offers the economy guide 
for “the voyager who plans to s-t-r-e-t-c-h his or her outlay to the absolute maxi- 
mum—and to spend less money in seeing more.” 
Chapters on 24 cities are provided in the book. Each city is covered by 12 
subjects which include “Pennywise Fat Cats’ Overnights” (high budget accommoda- 
tions); “Medium Budget Overnights”; “Roof, Doornobs, and Bed” (the rock bottom 
recommendations); “Cap, Gown, and Quad” (for the student traveller); “Sights for 
Sore Eyes” (sightseeing) ; and “Budget Browsing and Buying.” 
Reference Guide for Travelers 
Accommodations 
J. A. Neal 
Car Rental 
1969; 674 pp. 
Clothing 
Consulates 
free at sensible libraries everywhere 
Currency 
Customs Regulations 
Food & Drinks 
Shopping 
Travel Within 
Holidays & Festivals 
Sightseeing 
car 
Night Life 
Tipping 
organized tours 
Passport 
Travel To 
rail 
Recreation 
air 
‘streetcar 
Restaurants 
sea 
Visas 
10 
