Notes on Nomad Equipment 
t is important to have gear that is well made and really does the 
b. But often the more expensive stuff is more specialized than 
what is needed—and sometimes actually becomes a liability. 
| 1)Sleeping bags—if you're not sleeping where it gets below 
| freezing—and weight and storage bulk is no big problem, then 
a good dacron filled bag ($25) may be superior to a down bag 
('$75-100). Dacron doesn’t mat down very much so there is 
O necessity for a foam pad or air mattress (needed for insulation 
comfort with down bags). Also, dacron is easier to maintain. 
2) Boots—Guyseoften buy boots much heavier, bulkier, and 
_ stiffer than they need. Boots that weigh 3 pounds (like the 
| Voyageur ‘‘Hiker’’) are much more comfortable than those 
_ 
in the 5-6 pound range—which are more expensive and only 
_necessaryin severe cold or extremely rugged conditions. 
| 3) Water-proofing—This is a real problem. Garments that 
_are really water-proof will get you soaking wet from 
interior condensation caused by your own body heat. The only 
_way to stay dry (out doors) in a good down pour is to wear a 
parka that “’breathes’’—passes both air and moisture—under- 
neath a loose fitting poncho. Fabrics that ‘‘breathe but are 
_ water-proof” are introduced each year. They never seem to 
| work. Tightly woven or knitted wool takes a long time to soak 
through and still retains insulative quality. Nylon shell down 
| filled stuff is practically useless once it gets wet. 
4) Four Wheel Drive—Almost everyone wants it but hardly anyone 
ever needs it. They get low gas milage and have low high-way 
speeds. Besides, in most places and cases they shouldn’t even 
F 
i ; 
 there—cutting up the land, making noise and smog, and 
i 
being ugly. Snow and mud tires on a truck or microbus are 
more versatile for general use (and cheaper to buy, run and 
| 
maintain). 
5) Sponges—use one to dry off before coming inside. Also 
to dry tent floors. 
6) 
Velcro—that's the stuff where you press a fuzzy tape of 
hooks onto another tape of loops. A good fastener for 
jomade clothing and things like attaching curtains to 
ampers. Just sew on or glue. 
Drew Langsner 
San Francisco, CA 
Chouinard Equipment for Alpinists 
Z most everyone who goes into the mountains eventually 
‘develops an urge to try rock scrambling or climbing of 
some kind. It is therefore important to be aware of the 
st safety procedures and climbing aids available. 
Ipinists Yvon Chouinard and Tom Frost design and 
fabricate a high quality selection of modern climbing 
equipment. Along with descriptions and illustrations 
of gear, their definitive catalog includes sections on 
history, use, care and precautions. 
There is evena 
beautifully illustrated article on ice climbing. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Drew Langsner] 
BONG BONGS 
_ Bongs were originally used only on the El Capitan walls but 
have since 
me a necessity even en some practice climbs. 
‘When properly placed they have the greatest holding power of 
any piton. They are blanked and formed from high strength 
aluminum alloy, plated for corrosion resistance and have a 
riveted head to prevent over-expansion while driving. All four 
have lightening holes which not only save weight but also 
ovide eyes for carabiners 
or tie-off loops. The 2” Bong is 
ade in alloy steel as well as aluminum. 
, 
yy deaths in the outdoors, not only in the mountains, but in 
unting, boating, hiking and many other outdoor activities, have 
ays been attributed by the news media to “exposure,” a vague 
_ 
d rather misleading non-medical term. 
1t has become increasingly 
arent that many, if not most of these deaths are actually due to 
dental hypothermia. Even recognition by physicians has not 
| general, partly because the usual medical thermometer does not 
below 94° F.,and is even difficult to shake down that low, but 
ly to the fact that the clinical manifestations can stimulate 
matic shock, many diseases, or the effects of alcohol or drugs. 
wea cai 
Mountaineering: The Freedom of the Hills 
~ 
By far the most complete and sensitive treatment of moun- 
taineering available. Oriented around Pacific Northwest 
mountaineering, where trails often end miles before the 
peaks begin, it is particularly relevant to wilderness 
camping and travel. It is much more than a book on how 
to climb. Reflects several generations of respectful 
relationship with mountains. If you move (or sit) where 
there are trees, rocks, snow, and brush, it speaks to your 
terrain. One limitation: little about dry, arid areas— 
glaciers are the local functional equivalent of deserts. 
[Reviewed by Michael Templeton. 
Suggested by everybody.] 
In recent years many a mountaineer has developed the habit or 
hobby of not only making his own passage invisible but of 
spending extra effort to obliterate evidence of his predecessors— 
most of whom were just ignorant and thoughtless. 
To the crafts of rock climbing, rock mountaineering adds routefinding— 
the most difficult and the most rewarding of alpine arts. The art is not 
mastered quickly. Many a person becomes highly skilled in climbing 
rock while still utterly ignorant about choosing the best rock to climb. 
Mountaineering: 
The Freedom of the Hills 
ed. Harvey Manning 
1960, 1967; 485 pp. 
$7.50 postpaid 
from: 
The Mountaineers 
P, O. Box 122 
Seatile, Wash. 98111 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
Belayer (when ready with belay): ‘Belay on.” 
Climber: ‘’Climbing.” 
Climber (when rope is too loose): ‘‘Up rope.” 
(when more rope is needed): 
‘’Slack.” 
(for a taut rope to hold his weight): “Tension.” 
Climber (when safe): “Off belay.”” 
Belayer (responding): ‘Belay off.” 
Both (when needed): ‘’ROCK!” 
Climber (if it happens): “FALLING!” 
Fig. 22. Footholds. 
a. Correct—close together, 
b. Incorrect—too far apart. 
g 
lf a skirmish with brush must be accepted there is no technique at 
all. Brushfighting is not a diversion for civilized, gentle folk. One 
cannot afford charity toward slide alder or devil's club; one must hate 
and punish and kill when possible. 
* 
Summit 
The only monthly magazine published in the U. S. devoted 
to mountaineering fortunately covers all phases. Articles 
range from accounts of “treks” in Nepal and even more 
remote areas to logs and descriptions of spectacular 
climbing achievements. Of special interest has been their 
publication of good medical articles pertinent to conditions 
such as altitude, cold, and fatigue. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Drew Langsner] 
Summit 
$6.00 a year (10 issues) 
from: 
Summit 
Big Bear Lake 
California 92315 
The deadly effects of hypothermia are primarily circulatory and 
cardiac, with rather characteristic electro-cardiographic changes, 
and the secondary pulmonary vascular congestion and pulmonary 
edema tends to simulate the entity of high altitude pulmonary 
edema, with foaming at the mouth. Hypothermia is generally 
considered to exist when the body temperature, rectally, falls 
below 95° F., with degrees between 90-959 F. requiring only 
vigorous supportive care, while temperatures below 90°F. 
require immediate and sometimes heroic medical treatment. 
In the infamous Dachau experiments on seven unanesthetized 
healthy human subjects intentionally chilled in ice water, 
death occurred between 75.2-84.2° F. with an average value 
of 80.6° F. 
The quest of the mountaineer, in simplest terms, is for the freedom 
of the hills, to be fully at home in the high wilderness with no 
barriers he cannot pass, no dangers he cannot avoid. 
The leader must be inspiring, as inspiring as the occasion demands. 
If the rising hour is 2 a.m., the leader rises then; he may not want to, 
but he does. 
If the summit is near and the time is short, he does not 
merely decide to continue or retreat; he gets everyone to decide the 
same way. 
In crisis he is firm; in ordeal he is the example of fortitude; 
in disaster he controls himself, and leads his companions to control of 
the situation. He must combat lassitude and despondency; he must 
curb greed and anger; he must avoid panic and despair. He may be the 
strong, silent type or the “talk it up, gang!” type; whoever he is, he 
must inspire and contro! himself before he can inspire and control others. 
COOKING AND EATING UTENSILS 
The least-expensive cooking utensils are tin cans in various sizes, 
junked {at home, not in the mountains) when rusty. Aluminum 
utensils cost a little more but are more durable. 
Bails are desirable 
for suspending pots over the fire, and lids to keep ashes out and 
steam in. Aluminum foil is versatile beyond description, under 
adept manipulation becoming a frying pan, oven for baking foods 
in a bed of coals, reflector oven for biscuits, and if need be even 
a cup or a pot. 
With a poly bottle, or a canteen of anodized aluminum, a climber 
can enjoy fruit juices untained by the toxic metal salts generated 
in containers of stee! or untreated aluminum. 
BREAKFAST 
If the climb begins in the middle of the night, breakfast is merely the 
first installment of lunch. A tiny can of fruit cocktail, or a doughnut 
and a swallow of milk, are typical menus. Some climbers are convinced 
their legs won’t work without hot food; their neurosis can be quickly 
pampered with instant cereal or cocoa cooked by chemical fire. 
LUNCH 
As soon as breakfast is completed the climber commences lunch, 
which he continues to eat as long as he is awake, stopping briefly 
for supper. He has food in his rucksack and knick-knacks in his 
pockets, main courses for the summit lunch, nibbles for rest-stops, 
and sweets to suck while walking. 
® 
For special purposes a hunting knife is superior, as are double 
bitted axes, cavalry sabers, Gatling guns, and dynamite, but 
the modest mountaineer contents himself with a modest 
blade. 
* 
Mountaineering Medicine 
It is small enough to carry any time you go into an 
isolated or hazardous area; well organized, and fairly 
up-to-date. 
There are sections on various injuries, 
snow blindness, bites and stings, sunburn, water 
purification, etc.. 
The booklet concludes with a 
section on making and using a first aid kit. (You'll 
need a physician to write ‘scrips for certain drugs 
Hone! 
| 
4 
(Suggested and reviewed by 
- 
Drew Langsner] 
Mountaineering 
Medicine 
Fred Darvill, Jr., 
M. D. 
1966, 1968; 35 pp. 
$1.00 postpaid 
from: 
Skagit Mountain Rescue Unit 
P.O. Box 2 
IMPORTANT! 
Mt. Vernon, Wash. 98273 
Some of the information contained herein is a part of the 
practice of medicine rather than first aid (i.e. reducing a dis- 
located shoulder, use of morphine and antibiotics, etc.). 
Use of 
this data as recommended is more likely to benefit than to harm 
when INJURY OR ILLNESS OCCUR IN THE WILDERNESS 
far from a physician or hospital; however, these techniques should 
not be used by relatively untrained persons if professional assist 
ance is close at hand. 
Always 
carry 
these 
essentials 
for 
climbing 
and 
wilderness 
travel: 
1. Map of area 
5. 
Sun glasses & sun cream (Scolex or Uval) 
2. Compass 
6. 
Knife 
3. Flashlight 
7. Extra food 
4, Matches & candle 
8. 
Extra clothing 
First aid kit (see page 31) 
