st roadside tent by far is the Thermos POPTENT(R), a dome 
ped affair that erects in about one minute without ropes, poles, 
_ 
izes with sewn in floor, screen door and window. Hexagonal 
about 6% feet across the flats sleeping two and a child, and a 
One about 8% feet and 6 feet high that wil! sleep four but 
less wind stability. The smaller one is best, folding up into a 
§ inches diameter and two feet long weighs 13 Ibs. Prices 
tom store to store, but expect to pay about $60 for the small 
90 for the bigone. Don’t pay more. Cut urethane foam 2” 
ck to oy 
the floor and you have a good camp for a small car or 
orcycle. 
A really good toilet for minibuses 
and vans or even cabins is the 
PORTA POTTI. 
It does its job as 
advertised for $109.00 and there 
is no installation chore. from 
ALLIED TRAILER SUPPLY 
STORES. The same manufacturer 
makes nice plastic. sinks for $7.50. 
onda has a new 300 watt 
ynerator big enough for 
ting and small appliances. 
“s really quiet, you can talk 
ormal voice with it run- 
on your table. $185.00. 
/ make a very nice larger 
too that is exceptionally 
to operate and though it 
‘t as quiet as the small one, 
il is remarkably quiet. 
00 watts will run Skilsaws 
ast an exceptionally long 
“ADVENTURER” — 
ot 
>> 
430 THERM'X 
r heating a camper 
SAFETY HEATER. 
sortentthereisa 
’ 
4 
‘ 
fut godd silent 
“a 
Made of sturdy, lightweight 
r that makes no 
a 
' 
anodized aluminum...no 
es called the 
< 
rusting! Our most popular 
m’x. They are 
2 
fe and they do 
model heater for sportsmen 
r job well, but 
Ee 
~” 
and general use. Ideal for 
special fuel that’s 
De pansivetor 
hunting, fishing, camping, small trail- 
Beating for weeks or 
acfiet, 
&FS, boats, cabins, camper units, sta- 
ae See 
‘4. 
tion wagons, planes, engine heating 
“makes excellent 
szzzel 
and hundreds of other uses. Operates 
pi ae Sieilen Ns 
===} 
up to 24 hours on a filling of white gas, 
he Dich sean 
: 
Samnpstove fuel or Thermasol fuel. Minimum 3,000 
is about $20 at 
BTU output; 914” high; 8” dia.; wt. 3 Ibs. Color, 
| Most camping stores.. 
Hunters Red and Ivory. Suggested 
retail only 
$27.95. 
Thermos makes camp stoves that can burn any kind of gas. But if 
| the pumping and hissing bit is a drag to you, look at one of the 
y bottle gas stoves. Some of the new ones come with a 
fillable little propane tank; are simple, silent, and safer. These 
st about $30.00 at mountain climbing shops and trailer and 
at supply stores. The various brands each have their own 
vantages, but get one that can use the refillable bottle. 
so bear in mind that dead wood is flammable and free and 
esthetic.—SB] 
d equipment costs more, but in nomadic living it is a particular 
h to have devices that don’t really do the job bugging you every 
. This is especially true of stoves. 
are of articles made for use in trailers and boats that are 
itional."” Often in the past, trailer users have tended to be 
servative, and so they have resisted advanced design. There 
many pieces of trailer and boat equipment that are just plain 
‘Think about it. Travel light. 
f you" re building a camper bus or converting a truck or just 
Jatting, a gold mine of supplies and parts is the Allied Trai 
ply Master Catalog. $3.00 from ATS PO Box 806 Moun 
Calif. 94040. 
It contains a truly amazing array of thir 
might be needed in nomadic living (and many that are 
ncluding electrical and sanitation equipment, water 
ifiers, trailer hitches, lights, fridges, jacks, window and vent 
‘dware, etc. As with most things, it’s better to buy it at the 
e rather than out of the catalog. 
ALLIED 
TRAILER SUPPLY 
PARTS-SUPPLIES 
ACCESSORIES 
MOBILE HOMES 
© TRAILERS 
* BOATS 
TRAILER PARKS 
+ LPG INDUSTRIES 
PICK-UP CAMPERS = MOTOR HOMES 
HARDWARE © ELECTRONICS 
ALL RECREA’ 
Latch Set Surface Mount 
; 
_ 
w/side strike for sliding 
screens and windows. 
her good place to find nomad equipment is at the larger 
e supply houses. The stuff made for boats will often adapt 
d use and is likely to be of better quality. Prices are likely 
higher. Marine catalogs also list an impressive variety of 
's, cable and rope, eyebolts, caulking compounds, and other 
‘ical stuff that can be useful. 
re building your own truck body, round off the front 
of all surfaces to a radius of at least 8 inches. This radius 
'e the least possible air drag (and consequently the best 
ileage) to a basically rectangular shape. You can make the 
of the body curved easily from sheet metal or masonite and 
the corners from fiberglas over carved styrofoam. Funky 
ins on wheels are users. 
s and will withstand bad weather remarkably well. Comesin 
« — 
» prefer it to house, apartnient, or tipi. On the road last 
poptent 
Camper trucks and busses can be made a lot more comfortable to 
ride in by replacing the seats with good quality bucket seats out 
of cars. Most junk yards charge outrageous prices for buckets, 
but one of the very best seats is from a Renault R8 or 10. 
These cost as little as $25 a pair and make a big difference. 
Get them tracks and all. 
Good sunglasses can greatly reduce fatigue and headaches and also 
save your eyes for night driving. RayBan with g-15 gray lenses take 
out mast of the ultraviolet and infrared rays, but pass most of the 
light for less eyestrain. They also don’t distort colors which is nice 
for color freaks. These cost about $12, but are sturdy shock 
resistant ground glass with no distortion. They also come prescription. 
& 
For those of you with money, International makes an aluminum bread 
truck with power steering and brakes, automatic transmission and 
V8 engine for about $4500. 
The new model Ford Econoline Bus is by far the biggest bus inside, 
if that’s a travel mode that tempts you. They aren’t too good on 
traction so order “‘positraction”’ rear axle. Smaller American bus 
engines eat about the same as VW, have more power. 
In all house 
cars, try to build as light as you can and keep the weight low and 
distributed evenly. You can have it funky if necessary, but it 
needn't be ridiculous to drive if you spend a little time designing it. 
Cortez is the best large bus type camping rig. It is a lot lower, 
easier to drive and generally nicer due to having front wheel 
drive. Used ones are beginning to be seen. 
Used or new pickup campers should be on a heavy duty pickup 
with heavy tires and cooling system. Four wheel drive machines 
are heavy on gas and expensive to fix. Think if you really need 
one. “Positraction” rear end on normal pickup is good compromise. 
Half ton pickups are really too light for camper rigs. 
There are campground guides that list all commercial and State and 
National park camps. A good one is Rand McNally. The new one 
appears at larger newsstands about March. There are trailer parks 
guides too, and mobile home park guides. WOODALL Publishing 
Co., 500 Hyacinth Pl. Highalnd Park IIlinois 60035 has these for 
$3.95 each. 
[Trespassing is free, aesthetic, and private. Just leave 
no trace, and the landowner will be friendly to the next guy.—SB] 
State electric companies often have camps too at their hydroelectric 
lakes. Ask them. 
If you pull off the road to sleep, if you leave your parking lights on, 
the police will be less inclined to stop and investigate you. 
In some 
states it is illegal to camp along a road but these laws are in the 
process of change. Back roads are best, but you always run a risk 
of being yahooed in the rougher parts of the country. 
In big cities, 
all night gas stations will often allow you to park in their station to 
sleep if you buy some gas. 
Light tight window covers enabie house cars to stay on city streets 
without police harrassment. They think you aren't at home if there 
are no lights and no neighbor complains. One way is make lids from 
cardboard instead of having curtains. 
J. Baldwin 
Pacific High School 
Saratoga, CA 
Airstream Travel Trailer 
No argument; Airstream is the best travel trailer there is— 
lightest, most beautiful, best designed. It’s built like an 
airplane—monocoque—the skin is the structure, and so it’s 
free of corners inside and out. A pleasure to inhabit. 
However it’s also more expensive than other trailers. If 
you buy in August, when the sales on this year’s models 
start, you can save $1,000 or so. Also used Airstreams are 
worth considering. | & wife live in a 22-footer and 
summer it took 20 minutes to have a dome at Libre. 
For nearest Airstream 
dealer consult: 
Sample prices: 
Airstream 
107 Church Street 
; 
‘69-23 ft. 
$6500 
Jackson Center, Ohio 45334 
'68 
24%. 
$4900 
15939 Piuma Avenue 
‘63. 
19ft. 
$2700 
Cerritos, CA 90701 
‘63. 
«16 ft. 
$2100 
* 
BMW Motorcycle 
BMW motorcycles—as far as quality there is not 
another vehicle on the road that can touch them. 
Mine is 10 years old and has 143,000 miles on it. 
Last year | loaded it up with 430 pounds of 
people, camping gear and luggage and drove to 
Maine and then went 50 miles into the wilder- 
ness. 
| figure she’s good for another 10/143,000. 
They are a bit expensive but worth every penny. 
If you're going to go Nomadic, on or off the 
road, you might as well go all the way. 
It's 
the only way to travel. Western distributor is 
Flander Co., 200 West Walnut Street, Pasadena, 
CA 91103. Eastern Distributor & sole importer 
is Butler & Smith, 160 West 83rd Street, 
N. Y., N. Y. 10024. 
[Suggested and reviewed by 
Larry Kafka] 
x 
Jawa Motorcycle 
| was glad to see the BMW mentioned in the 
Supplement, as bikes are good tools with 
lots 
of mythic freedom meanings for most 
Americans; and for those who are still into the 
internal combustion reciprocating life style, 
they have the extra advantage of being: 
smelly, noisy, saxy, and fast. 
\'d like to mention the Jawa, which is at the other 
other end of the scale from the BMW and 
might be of more interest to rural/community 
people. 
The Jawa is a 2-stroke 125-300 cc lightweight made in Czechoslovakia. 
Parts are easy to get in the East (a problem in the West) and the bike is 
¢ 
dirt cheap to buy and run. 
Prices run about $150-$200 below Italian 
and Japanese machinery. 
But the best thing about the Jawa is that you don’t need many parts. 
fe he bike was designed to be, and is the staple transportation device 
# 
of the Communist world. 
It's simple, slow, reliable and strong. 
Like the BMW, the Jawa is an old-fashioned “‘backwards” machine— 
unchanged since 1954. The engine is a long stroke, piston port, plain 
bearing low RPM single (except for the 350 twin), all of which means 
high torque at low speeds. 
It's.a thumper, a tractor. 
The BMW is a great road bike but as soon as you take it in the dirt 
you're in trouble. With the Jawa, it's the other way around. 
It'll 
shake the shit out of you on along trip, but kick it into low and stand 
up on the pegs and you can chomp through anything. | like to ride 
ie mine in the sand and mud, and I’m sure | Sade plow with it. 
! bought my new 1969 for $420! Old ones are even cheaper, as they 
start to rust before you even get them home. 
Like an East European 
drip dry suit, it wilts right away but wears forever. This seems like a 
good cheap draft horse for a community, as you can carry a lot of 
stuff on a bike after you get used to it, and also hook up a small 
trailer. 
| cruise Manhattan looking for firewood on mine. 
Check any bike shop in the east or AMERICAN JAWA LTD. 
38-15 Greenpoint Avenue, Long Island City, N. Y. 11101. 
{Suggested and reviewed by 
Terry Bisson] 
