* 
Art and Illusion 
So much art criticism is so much a vapid waste of time that 
a book like this one is thoroughly a shock. Every page 
yields fresh information (did you know that the comic 
strip was singlehandedly invented by a Swiss gent named 
Tdpfler in the 1820’s?) and worthwhile hypotheses 
about how art and artists gradually teach themselves 
energies of effect. Furthermore the book is a bargain— 
it has 319 fine illustrations, 18 in color. 
Art and Illusion 
E. H. Gombrich 
1960, 1961; 466 pp. 
$5.95 postpaid 
from: 
Princeton University Press 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540 
EH. GOMBRICH 
ART AND, ILLUSION 
4 Study a the Pochology of 
Pretorial Representation 
‘The A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts, 1956 
Bollingen 
Series / 
Princeton 
Only in the realm of dreams has the artist found full freedom 
to create. 
| think the difference is well summed up in the 
anecdote about Matisse. When a lady visiting his studio said, 
“But surely, the arm of this woman is much too long,”’ the 
artist replied politely, ‘Madame, you are mistaken. This is 
not a woman, this is a picture.” 
4 
% 
But no tradition of art had a deeper understanding of what | have 
called the “‘screen’’ than the art of the Far East. Chinese art 
theory discusses the power of expressing through absence of 
brush and ink. “‘Figures, even though painted without eyes, must 
seem to look; without ears, must seem to listen. 
. 
. 
. There are 
things which ten hundred brush-strokes cannot depict but which 
can be captured by a few simple strokes if they are right. That 
is truly giving expression to the invisible.” [170] 
The maxim 
into which these observations were condensed might serve as 
a motto of this chapter: 
‘‘i tao 
pi pu tao—idea present, brush 
may be spared performance.” 
x 
STEINBERG: 
From “The . 
Passport” 
202 
Max Friedlander tells the revealing story of the bank official 
who insisted that German bank notes should retain a portrait 
head in their design. Nothing, he said, was harder for the 
forger to imitate than precisely the right expression of these 
artistically quite insignificant heads, nor was there a quicker 
way of discovering a suspect note than simply observing the 
way these faces look at you. 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
i 
& The Tres Riches Heures of Jean, Duke of Berry 
Ml 
/f you are at a place in your life where images can 
W 
affect you, level this book at your head. 
It has 
> 
139 color plates, incomparable, exquisite, razor- 
& 
edged. There is nothing like it in history. 
WW The Trés Riches Heures of Jean, Duke of Berry 
iM 
1485, 1969; 139 plates and text. 
ke 
from: 
dp 
George Braziller 
4 
1 Park Avenue 
ul 
§=New York, N. Y. 10016 
i) 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
In this emphasis on elimination of false guesses, on trial and 
error in all acquisition of knowledge ‘’from the amoeba to 
Einstein,” | am following K. R. Popper. 
It would be tempting 
to take up the problems of Gestalt psychology from this angle, 
for Popper emphasizes that the assumption of regularity is of 
the utmost biological value. A world in which all our expec- 
tations were constantly belied would be a lethal world. Now 
in looking for regularities, for a framework or schema on which 
we can at least provisionally rely (though we may have to 
modify it for ever), the only possible strategy is to proceed from 
simple assumptions. Popper has shown that paradoxically this 
is not due to the fact that a simple assumption is more prob- 
ably right but because it is most easily refuted and modified. 
Rabbit or duck? 
True, we can switch from one reading to another with increasing 
rapidity; we will also ‘‘remember”’ the rabbit while we see the 
duck, but the more closely we watch ourselves, the more certainly 
we will discover that we cannot experience alternative readings at 
the same time. 
Illusion, we will find, is hard to describe or analyze, 
for though we may be intellectually aware of the fact that any given 
J 
experience must be an illusion, we cannot, strictly speaking, watch 
ourselves having an illusion. 
269 
AL UapPp: The Shmoo 
= 
$30.00 postpaid until 25 December 1969; $35.00 thereafter 
* 
Brain Storms 
Dr. Barker presents a fascinating argument that epileptic 
fits and fits of creativity are very closely related and both 
are brought on by unusual threats to continuity in brain 
function, requiring a massive “storm” 
of re-organization 
in the brain. The fit is an attempt to in fact fit together 
incompatible considerations which have collided. | believe 
it, in part because Barker makes his case so well, in part 
because it sounds like what I’ve experienced. 
Brain Storms— A Study of Human Spontaneity 
Wayne Barker, M. D. 
1968; 277 pp. 
$2.95 postpaid 
from: 
Grove Press, Inc. 
80 University Place 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
A fit, even the grossest major convulsive fit of epilepsy, is many 
things happening at once. 
Fits are patterns of awareness and action, 
combinations of knowing, feeling, and doing. They are episodes 
of behavior and experience put together by the brain during 
crises in the continuity of living. 
Such crises are characterized by 
a sudden coming together of a complex of conflicting and disparate 
ideas, images, and impulses; fits are syntheses of such complexes 
that both resolve and represent their otherwise unthinkable 
contradictions and ambiguities. By providing more or less fitting 
resolutions of crises, fits serve to maintain or restore the crisis- 
disrupted continuity of transactions between organism and environ- 
ment. 
2 2 
3 
e 
... if we can endure confrontation with the unthinkable, we may be 
able to fit together new patterns of awareness and action. We might, 
that is, have a fit of insight, inspiration, invention, or creation. The 
propensity for finding the answer—the lure of creating or discovering 
the new—no doubt has much to do with some people’s ability to 
endure tension until something new emerges from the contradictory 
and ambiguous situation. 
xii Contents 
27. “... 1 Know That It Is Poetry” 
Fits of Gooseflesh, Shivering, the “Top of My Head 
Coming Off,” and Other Reactions Precipitated by 
Poetic Versions of Uncanny Experience. 
28. “... Thoughts Crowd into My Mind .. 
. Whence Do They Come?” 
A Fit of Composing. A Creative Minding of a Dys- 
junctive Flood of Ideas. 
29. Taking a Talking-Taking Walk 
A Fit in Which a Major Convulsive Reaction Is 
Transformed into a Sequence of Anger, Coughing, 
Laughing, and Wit. 
30. "Z, Y,X,W,V..." 
A Fit of “Trying to See” the Answer to an Experi- 
mental Problem. 
31. “Oh, Yeah? If You Know So Much, When’il the War Be Over?” 
A Fit of Unintended Prophecy. 
*32. A Morose Secretary 
A Fit of Symbolization, Condensation, and Hallu- 
cination While Trying to Think. 
33. Perspiration and Inspiration 
The Interaction of Intention and Spontaneity in 
Complex Sequential Fits of Creation. 
34. “Suddenly | Felt a Misty Consciousness as of Something Forgotten . . 
Everything Had a Name" 
A Fit of Spelling, of Recognition, and of Sudden 
Fitting Together. 
What we need is to let the fitting-together capacity of the human 
brain operate at least occasionally in freedom from the narrow, 
provincial, egoistic concerns of ‘I’ and “Us.”” The essence of 
our contemporary crisis is simple: Most people in the world want 
to have modestly human food, shelter, and an opportunity to care 
decently for their children. The technological and material means 
— 
for satisfaction of these wants exist. Not much of a “dream” is 
required to get it done. No longer will any conventional evasion or 
caricatured ‘‘solution” suffice. The only possible outcomes now 
are convulsive or creative. 
It all depends upon our commitment. 
184 The Concepts of Dysjunctive Situations 
An “experiment arranged by life’ 
