Dyna Domes 
There are about a dozen Dyna Domes on the outskirts of 
Phoenix. Each new one built gets a little closer to the city 
limits, and it’s the hope of domebuilder Bill Woods to have 
“the city fathers wake up one morning, find themselves 
surrounded by domes, and admit the new creatures under 
the wings of the building codes. 
} 
These are good quality, low 
cost plywood domes, with 
fiberglass exterior, and 
polyurethane foam insulation 
sprayed on the inside. Wood 
struts are put together with 
- 
patented metal connectors, 
seams are filled with high- 
strength caulk, then taped 
with fiberglass. 
a dome erected (within 500 
miles of Phoenix), buying a 
kit, or purchasing just the 
‘connectors with plans. 
glass buildings, has built a 
machine that produces the 
to market a foam dome. 
* 
Zomeworks 
_ Zomeworks builds structure systems, structures, solar energy 
collectors and systems, and glamour. From their desert base 
near Albuquerque they are shortly blossoming into an industry. 
Something I’m considering at present is whether to personally 
invest in that growth. 
e 
—S. B. 
For design, fabrication, consulting, lectures, write: 
Zomeworks Humanufactory 
Box 445 
_ Futuro 
“It’s interesting that Finland, with its extensive forests and 
finely-crafted wooden structures, should present the first 
well-detailed commerically available foam-fiberglass 
dwelling. Called Futuro, this gleaming elliptical pod with 
retractable stairs, looks like it just landed. Now in 
_ production in Philadelphia and slated for west-coast 
production in San Jose, the lightweight home can be 
_ helicopter-dropped, and requires no site preparation. 
Structural strength and insulation are outstanding 
features. 
The interior furnishings (optional) look 
plastic and shiny—perhaps the direction that future 
housing will take. 
FUTURO FACTS 
Z 
1. 100% insulated 2’’ polyurethane foam—heats from -22 to 72 F. in 
30 minutes. 
: 
2. Positive pressure ventilation system—air conditioning available. 
3. Complete kitchen facilities. 
4. Bathroom facilities with shower and either chemical or standard 
‘water closet. 
: 
3 
5. Internal partitions can be modified to sleep up to eight people in 
- 
One unit or can be divided into two double bed motel units, 
or supplied bare, except for water closet. Furnishings include 
6 convertible chaise/beds, lighted arm rests, center table, 
barbecue, fireplace, carpets, partitions, shelves, etc. 
6. Interior and exterior are made of fiberglas, including furnishing 
(except for carpeting). Estimated life span in excess of 30 years. 
7. Almost completely maintenance free for life of unit. 
: 
8. €xterior colors available: Pale blue, pine forest green, pale pink, 
lemon yellow. Interior decor complements exterior. 
9. Snow load in excess of 10 feet; wind load over 100 miles per 
hour, sealed against all water, dust or air infiltration. 
10. Gross weight about 8000 pounds; diameter 26 feet; internal 
i 
height at center—11 
feet; effective area at window height— 
500 square feet; volume—5000 cubic feet; supporting structure— 
steel tubing with legs proportioned for 0 to 20 site slope. 
You have the choice of having 
Woods has been experimenting 
for some time with foam-fiber- 
sandwich panels, and is about 
Corrales, New Mexico 87048 
Complete dome, erected on concrete floor within 500 miles 
of Phoenix: approx. $4.00 per sq. ft. floor space. 
Complete kit with instructions for erection: 
approx. $2.00 
per sq. ft. floor space. 
Hub connectors, with plans for building it yourself: $2.00 
per strut. 
11. No site preparation whatsoever, except for concrete piers to 
bolt down legs (plus utilities to site). Special independently 
operated utilities for more remote areas. 
12. Designed for maximum security when stairs are retracted. 
13. Twenty double acrylic windows—optionally operable. Viewable 
windows can be placed in either lower or upper hemisphere. 
14. Portable (assembled) by helicopter or barge. 
15. Portable (disassembled) by truck or rail. 
ZONING AND BUILDING CODES—Futuro is available for Class 
| or || Fire Ratings and will be suitable for sparsely developed areas, 
or those conforming to National Building Codes. 
TYPICAL SHIPPING COSTS-—(f.0.b. Philadelphia)—Helicopter 
_ 
assembled about $1000 per 100 miles. Car or Truckload disassembled 
varies. West Indies—Barge and Helicopter at Island $3,000 assembled. 
HIGH STRENGTH SEALER 
WEATHER PROOF COATING 
FIBERGLAS TAPE 
%- INCH FIBERGLAS 
COATED PLYWOOD 
ieee op 
ACOUSTICAL FOAM 
INSULATION 
Figure 3 
SKELETAL MEMBER 
Brochure free from: 
Dyna Dome 
22226 North 23rd Avenue 
Phoenix, Arizona 85027 
The Futuro House 
is now on display 
at 20th and Parkway, 
Philadelphia. 
Futuro House 
$1 0,000 for shell 
$1 4,000 for completely equipped house 
F. O. B. Philadelphia 
from: 
Futuro Corporation 
1900 Rittenhouse Square 
Philadelphia, PA 19103 
