en 
a 
aay 
a 
ee 
x Low-Cost Wood Homes 
_ 
house construction. Details on pole house construction, 
Design and Control of Concrete Mixtures is an engineering 
* 
5 
ve 
: 
# 
Lumber and Wood Products Literature 
A bibliography 
of literature available on properties and 
uses of wood, with publications on timber construction. 
plywood, flooring, forestry and others. 
' An excellent manual, with 100’s of good drawings, on wood 
and all aspects of wood frame buildings. 
[Suggested by Jerome Skuba] 
STAKE 
S 
STAKE 
7 
Lumber and Wood Products Literature 
free 
POLE FOUNDATION) 
POLE-TYPE BUILDINGS 
How to Design Pole-Type Buildings—Framing details of 12 
types of structures. 
Data and equations for figuring stresses, 
loads, pole embedments, sizes and other informatin. 68 pages. 
(Price $1.50) 
Low Cost Pole-T ype Hangers—Portfolio containing complete 
woodworking plans, details, and instructions for erecting “T” 
shaped hangars. Directory listing pole-type building contrac- 
tors included.. 
(Price $3.00) 
AWPI Directory of Pole Building Contractors—A list of ex- 
perienced pole-building contractors throughout the country. 
OVERHANG 
OF 
fe 
FRAMING 
( 
ff 
ane 
POSTS) 
‘from: 
National Forest Products Association 
Technical Services Division 
1619 Massachusetts Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20036 
HOUSE 
(OVERHANIG 
DESIGN) 
STAKE 9 
WIDTH 
OF 
HOUSE 
(WITH 
EDGE 
PIERS 
OR 
STAKE 
3 
LENGTH OF HOUSE (FROM PLANS) 
—American Wood Preservers Institute 
How to Build Pole-Type Frame Buildings—Details on how to 
lay out, design and build pole-type frame buildgins for farm 
service. 12 pages. 
—Southern Pine Association 
STAKE 6 
STAKE 
8 
House & footing layout 
ee 
TAMPED FILL — 
TREATED 
IX 
Low-Cost Wood Homes for Rural 
America—Construction Manual 
Timber Fastenings — Describes various timber fastenings, other 
r 
| 
itty a Hecson 
pe 
oe 
than nails, in common use. 
Tables of bearing stresses, with- 
1969; 112 pp. 
BELOW FROST LINE. 
drawal resistance and ee Ah 
ae 
—California 
Redwood 
Association 
$1.00 postpaid 
(on eames 
Construction and Analysis of Simple Hyperbolic-Paraboloid 
Ronis 
ON 
Fea ROUND? 
Shells of West Coast Lumber 
— Detailed information on an 
imaginative and striking structure, adaptable to many building 
applications, 8 pages. 
Superintendent of Documents 
U. S. Government Printing Office 
Alternate method of cetting edge 
foundation posts: footing position 
—Western Wood Products Association 
Concrete Manuals 
Tilt-up concrete construction is 
accomplished by casting wall panels 
On aconcrete floor or other relatively 
smooth bed and then tilting them to a 
vertical position. To prevent bond with 
the wall panel, the floor slab is covered 
with plastic film or a sprayed-on 
chemical. Wall panels are usually tilted 
by a tractor or other lifting equipment. 
The panels are braced and reinforced 
concrete columns are cast at the panel 
junctures to tie them together. 
Three informative pamphlets on concrete from the Portland 
Cement Association: 
Cement Mason’s Manual for Residential Construction /s 
primarily for home patios and walkways, with fundamentals 
on use of the transit, and instructions on finishing. 
Concrete Improvements for Farm and Ranch /s a good 
basic instruction manual, with details on many 
rural 
applications; how to build forms, tilt-up construction, 
water troughs, floors, etc. 
[Concrete Improvements] 
bulletin, very detailed, on all aspects of quality control! 
of concrete mixtures. 
[Suggested by Fred Richardson] 
Compressive Strength 
All 3 
% 
. 
Lightweight concrete with 28-day compressive strengths of 3,000 
free 
sepa ertice. 
to 4,500 psi can generally be produced in the laboratory with cement 
Another method of cutting joints in concrete slabs is with an electric or 
contents of 425 to 800 Ib. per cubic yard, depending on the 
from: 
gasoline-driven saw fitted with a shatterproof abrasive or diamond blade. A 
particular lightweight aggregate being used. Certain lightweight 
aggregates can be used to make concretes with strengths of 7,000 
to 9,000 psi and with cement contents of 565 to 940 Ib. per 
cubic yard. The rate of strength development for lightweight concrete 
is approximately the same as that for normal-weight concrete. 
power cutter produces a narrow joint that minimizes the possibilities of spalling 
at the joint due to traffic. The joint is cut in the concrete surface 4 to 12 hours 
after the concrete has hardened or as soon as the concrete surface will not be 
torn or damaged by the saw. 
Portland Cement Association 
Old Orchard Road 
Skokie, II]. 60076 
Observed. 
* 
- 
Blasting 
[Cement 
a 
Explosives are a cheap, highly portable, concentrated source of 
energy, an industrial and agricultural tool and as such useable 
and useful to the amateur who has need of such tools. Dangerous? 
Yes, but only a small hazard with reasonable care. — consider as 
no more, NOR LESS, dangerous than a gun which has no safety 
and is never unloaded. Treat accordingly—particularly with regard 
* to whom you allow to handle them! Can YOU use explosives? ... 
Yes—with care. Will YOU be ALLOWED to? ... Probably, but 
there ARE regulations and they vary too widely for generalisations. 
What would you want them for? The possible answers to that 
question would surprise most people—the uses of explosives 
range from the moulding of NASA hardware to the manufacture 
_ of diamonds! 
For the amateur though the most likely uses will 
lie in the making of access roads, foundations, land clearance 
and drainage. For instance, $25 worth of explosive will break 
up 150-400 tons of rock, or lift out and break up a dozen 
large stumps, or blow a ditch four feet deep, twelve feet wide 
at the top, tapering to four at the bottom and one hundred 
feet long. It is often, in outlving areas, cheaper to use explosives 
for a small drainage or creek diversion project than to pay the 
cost of getting a backhoe to the site. Also explosives can be 
used anywhere a man can go, which is often to places machines 
can’t. Even for a simple job like digging a trench for a culvert, 
a few dollars worth of dynamite used merely to loosen hard- 
packed soil can easily make the difference between man days of 
pick work and man hours of shovel work. 
The next question is: Where do you go for more information? 
And the answer to that is. . 
. your phone book, under “Explosives” in 
the yellow pages. Try first the nearest big company; du Pont has 
the most literature, Hercules seems the most helpful. Then try 
your nearest dealer, your local police, fire chief and Highway 
Patrol, in that order. Knew before you pick up the phone what 
you want to do and simply ask for advice and help with the 
regulations to enable you to do it. It is, however, normal to find 
that about half the latter have little idea themselves, so persist 
until you have read your local regulations for yourself, if necessary 
writing to your state capital. 
It goes without saying that the most 
useful information anyone can give you is the address of a 
neighbor who is experienced in handling dynamite. 
If you are 
unlucky and have to work entirely from the book, don’t worry 
too much—there isn’t any reason why you shouldn't do so 
safely, with no more than common sense AND RIGID ADHERENCE 
TO THE BOOK’S INSTRUCTIONS. Without knowledge of the 
reasons behind the regulations and the book’s ‘’Do’s and Don'ts”, 
you must not deviate in the slightest. 
In particular your local regulations 
_ for transport, storage and use will! be framed to reflect local 
‘conditions and hazards—every little detail] MUST be scrupulously 
4 
[Design and Control of Concrete Mixtures] 
LE SAN LOT 
« CONNECTING WIRE 
eo BLASTING CAP WIRE CONNECTION. 
LEAD WIRES TO BLASTING 
Wiring for electric blasting 
—$—SSssszz 
yo BLASTING CAP WIRE CONNECTIONS 
LEAD WIRES TO 
BLASTING MACHINE 
SIMULTANEOUS EXPLOSION OF 
CHARGES MAKES DITCH 
If a single charge of dynamite is placed in the ground and exploded, 
the resulting hole is similar to an inverted cone. If a series of charges 
are placed in a row and exploded, the result is a series of overlapping 
inverted cones. 
If all the charges in a series are set off at the same 
instant, the overlapping material does not fall back into the holes and 
a complete trench is the result. It would be impossible to shoot this 
series of charges separately and get a satisfactory trench. When a ditch 
explosion takes place, the blasted material is thrown from 100 to 200 
Practical literature is restricted to publications of the Institute 
of Makers of Explosive, 420 Lexington Avenue, New York 
10017, handbouts from manufacturers and, for those who have 
$6 to invest, Blaster’s Handbook from E. |. du Pont de Nemours, 
Wilmington, Delaware or Canadian Industries Limited, Montreal, 
Quebec. 
Imperial Chemical Industries, Limited, Nobel Division, 
Stevenston, Ayrshire, Scotland, also provides a handbook entitled 
Blasting Practice. Whilst the handbooks admittedly contain 
everything, they necessarily therefore only devote a small 
fraction of their space to the needs of the amateur; moreover, 
being aimed at the professional, they are neither well laid out 
nor well written for anyone else. The publications from the 
Institute of Makers of Explosive, though irritatingly archaic, 
remain sound, Their pamphlets, ‘‘Safety in the Handling and Use of 
Explosives” (#17), “How to Destroy Explosives” (#21), and 
“Explosives in Agriculture’ (#11), may cover most people’s needs, 
with the addition of a pamphlet which, despite its small size and 
vaguely apologetic foreword, is a class above anything else in its 
field and a model of terse lucidity—“Efficient Blasting through 
the proper care and use of Safety Fuse” from The Ensign-Bick 
ford 
Company, Simsbury, Connecticut. 
. 
Two final points: 
if you want to blast near rail, power, phone 
or pipe lines, contact the owner; and if you have charged up 
your first blast and want to know how far to retire and 
discover that the books become suddenly vague at that point— 
well, half a mile is a nice round figure. 
... 
. 
[Suggested and reviewed by Keith Britton, Advanced Blasting Comnany] 
All 
free 
with the 
exception 
of the 
Blaster’s 
Handbook 
