, tlas Shrugged 
Boy I’m fond of this book. It’s the only fiction alive that 
lets you identify with glee on the industrial, Earth-moving 
vel of action—Fuller’s domain. 
It’s the grandest drop- 
ut fantasy ever: the cream of civilization sense that they’re 
being used against themselves, so they split and build a 
dandy mountain community to hide in. It’s got big fat 
plot and idealistic romantic characters and mean philosophy. 
| Ayn Rand spits on altruism and mysticism, which is kind of 
a relief after all the mystical goo that’s going down these 
days. Her ethic is interesting: Thou shalt not use force, 
| 
nor assume that you know what's good for somebody else. 
There’s lots of literary flaws in this huge weird book, and 
lots of peculiar insights obtainable nowhere else. 
| The Effective Executive 
Wherever there’s a bunch of people doing something, 
_ somebody is bearing executive relation to the group, 
usually badly, so that he’s unhappy and the group is 
| 
unhappy, and nothing much is going on besides frustration. 
| But some leaders are good, and with them a lot happens 
| and everybody feels good. This book takes a deep look 
| into how “good” executives behave incommon. 
The 
| generalizations that emerge are useful to anybody with resp- 
_ onsibility, from the-honcho of a commune to the.goddam 
_ 
Pope. 
1. Effective executives know where their time goes. They 
work systematically at managing the little of their time that 
can be brought under their control. 
2. Effective executives focus on outward contribution. They 
gear their efforts to results rather than to work. They start 
- 
out with the question, “What results are expected of me?” 
rather than with the work to be done, let alone with its 
techniques and tools. 
3. Effective executives build on strengths—their own strengths, 
_ the strengths of their superiors, colleagues, and subordinates; 
__ 
and on the strengths in the situation, that is, on what they can do. 
‘They do not build on weakness. They do not start out with the 
things they cannot do. 
: 
4. Effective executives concentrate on the few major areas where 
_ superior performance will produce outstanding results, They force 
themselves to set priorities and stay with their priority decisions. 
___ They know that they have no choice but to do first things first— 
and second things not at all. The alternative is to get nothing done, 
_ 5. Effective executives, finally, make effective decisions. They know 
q 
that this is, above all, a matter of system—of the right steps in the 
| 
- 
fight sequence. They know that an effective decision is always a 
| 
«judgment based on “‘dissenting opinions” rather than on ‘consensus 
__ On the facts."” And they know that to make many decisions fast 
means to make the wrong decisions. What is needed are few, but 
fundamental, decisions. What is needed is the right strategy rather 
| 
than razzle-dazzle tactics. 
These are the elements of executive effectiveness—and these are 
the subjects of this book. 
he definition of a ‘routine’ is that it makes unskilled people without 
judgment capable of doing what it took near-genius to do before; for a 
routine puts down in systematic, step-by-step form what a very able man 
red in surmounting yesterday’s crisis. 
5 
le know very little about self-development. But we do know one thing: 
People in general, and knowledge workers in particular, grow according 
to the demands they make on themselves. They grow according to what 
they consider to be achievement and attainment. 
If they demand little 
‘of themselves, they will remain stunted. 
If they demand a good deal of 
themselves, they will grow to giant stature—without any more effort 
than is expended by the nonachievers. 
y 
, 
Handbook for Conscientious Objectors 
1 most comprehensive and authoritative single guide to 
the legal requirements and procedures for C. O.s under the 
present draft law. This book does not advise you to become 
a conscientious objector, but it does help in thinking through 
your beliefs and realistically making a decision about the 
draft. 
- 
If you are considering asking your draft board for 
conscientious objector status, considering resistance, or 
just exploring your alternatives with the draft, this book 
is valuable, It also has information for C.O.s in the 
vilitary, and describes the possible eventualities of 
court and prison. 
z 
‘CCCO also provides counseling, legal advice, help with 
bail, and publishes information useful to counseling 
agencies, lawyers and objectors. CCCO is non-church 
related, and lives on voluntary contributions. 
[Reviewed by Fred Richardson. 
Suggested by many.] | 
ndbook for Conscientious Objectors 
Edited by Ario Tatum 
1 
110 pp.; Updated frequently. 
° 
from: 
2016 Walnut Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. 10103 
437 Market Street 
Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors 
or the west coast office: 
San Francisco, CA 94105 
“Did you really think that we want those laws to be observed?” 
said Dr. Ferris. ‘“‘We_want them broken. You'd better get it 
straight that it’s not a bunch of boy scouts you’re up against— 
then you'll know that this is not the age for beautiful gestures. 
We're after power and we mean it. You fellows were pikers, but 
we know the real trick, and you'd better get wise to it. There’s 
no way to rule innocent men. The only power any government 
: 
has is the power to crack down on criminals. Well, when there aren't 
enough criminals, one makes them. One declares so many things 
to be a crime that it becomes impossible for men to live without 
breaking laws. Who wants a nation of law-abiding citizens? What's 
_} 
there in that for anyone? But just pass the kind of laws that can 
neither be observed nor enforced nor objectively interpreted— 
and you create a nation of law-breakers—and then you cash in 
on guilt. Now that’s the system, Mr. Rearden, that’s the game, 
and once you understand it, you'll be much easier to deal with.” 
The least-known of the great American business builders, Theodore 
Vail, was perhaps the most effective decision-maker in U. S. business 
history. As president of the Bell Telephone System from just before 
1910 till the mid-twenties, Vail built the organization into the 
largest private business in the world and into one of the most pros- 
perous growth companies. 
That the telephone system is privately owned is taken for granted in 
the United States. But the part of the North American continent 
that the Bell System serves (the United States and the two most 
populous Canadian provinces, Quebec and Ontario) is the only 
developed area in the world in which telecommunications are not 
owned by the government. The Bell System is also the only public 
utility that has shown itself capable of risk-taking leadership and 
rapid growth, even though it has a monopoly in a vital area and has 
achieved saturation of its original market... . 
“Our business is service’ became the Bell commitment as soon as 
Vail took.over. At the time, shortly after the turn of the century, 
this was heresy. But Vail was not content to preach that it was the 
business of the company to give service, and that it was the job of 
management to make service possible and profitable, He saw to it 
that the yardsticks throughout the system by which managers and 
their operations were judged, measured service fulfillment rather 
than profit performance. Managers are responsible for service 
results. 
1t is then the job of top management to organize and finance 
the company so as to make the best service also result in optimal 
financial rewards, 
.. 
. 
Vail’s third decision led to the establishment of one of the most 
successful scientific laboratories in industry, the Bell Laboratories. 
Again, Vail started out with the need to make a private monopoly 
viable. Only this time he asked: ‘How can one make such a 
monopoly truly competitive?” Obviously it was not subject to the 
normal competition from another supplier who offers the purchaser 
the same product or one supplying the same want. And yet without 
competition such a monopoly would rapidly become rigid and 
incapable of growth and change. 
But even in a monopoly, Vail concluded, one can organize the future 
to compete with the present. 
In a technical industry such as 
telecommunications, the future lies in better and different 
technologies. The Bell Laboratories which grew out of this insight 
were by no means the first industrial Jaboratory, not even in the 
United States. But it was the first industrial research institution 
that was deliberately designed to make the present obsolete, no 
matter how profitable and efficient. 
board; keep everything 
received from the local 
board. 
(2) Make all requests, 
appeals, etc., in writing. 
Protect yourself further 
by mailing them by 
certified letter, return 
receipt requested, Keep 
receipts. 
(3) Accept no oral 
promises from draft 
board clerks or members. 
for 
Follow the printed 
instructions on forms and 
i 
CONSCIENTIOUS 
notices explicitly; or 
OBJECTORS 
secure competent counsel 
if you do not understand 
the instructions, or if you 
cannot conscientiously 
follow them. 
NINTH EDITION 
$1 .50 postpaid 
Atlas Shrugged 
from: 
Ayn Rand 
New American Library 
f
1957; 1084 pp. 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
. 
New York, N. Y, 10019 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
“Every man builds his world in his own image,” he said. “He 
has the power to choose, but no power to escape the necessity 
of choice, ...” 
*“, 
.. Now that you know the truth about your world, stop 
supporting your own destroyers. The evil of the world is made 
possible by nothing but the sanction you give it. Withdraw 
your sanction. Withdraw your support. Do not try to live on 
your enemies’ terms or to win at a game where they’re setting 
the rules. Do not seek the favor of those who enslaved you, do 
not beg for alms from those who have robbed you, be it subsidies, 
loans or jobs, do not join their team to recoup what they’ve taken 
by helping them rob your neighbors. ... 
“ 
“"\€ you find a chance to vanish into some wilderness out of their 
reach, do so, but not to exist as-a bandit or to create a gang 
competing with their racket; build a productive life of your own with 
with those whoaccept your moral code and are willing to struggle 
for a human existence. You have no chance to win on the Morality 
of Death or by the code of faith and force; raise a standard to 
which the honest will repair: the standard of Life and Reason..., 
” 
The Effective Executive 
Peter F. Drucker 
1966; 178 pp. 
from: 
Harper & Row 
49 East 33rd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
$4.95 postpaid 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
To tolerate diversity, relationships must be task-focused rather than 
personality-focused. Achievement must be measured against objective 
criteria of contribution and performance. This is possible, however, 
only if jobs are defined and structured impersonally. Otherwise the 
accent will be on “Who is right?”’ rather than on “What is right?” 
In 
no time, personnel decisions will be made on “’Do | like this fellow?” 
or ‘Will he be acceptable?” rather than by asking “‘Is he the man most 
likely to do an outstanding job?” 
In every area of effectiveness within an organization, one feeds the 
opportunities and starves the problems. 
e 
No one has much difficulty getting rid of the total failures. They 
liquidate themselves. Yesterday’s successes, however, always linger 
on long beyond their productive life. 
There is serious need for a new principle of effective administration 
under which every act, every agency, and every program of government 
is conceived as temporary and as expiring automatically after a fixed 
number of years—maybe ten—unless specifically prolonged by new 
legislation. following careful outside study of the program, its 
results and its contributions. 
One hires new people to expand on already established and smoothly 
running activity. But one starts something new with people of tested 
and proven strength, that is, with veterans, 
The effective decision-maker, therefore, organizes disagreement. 
This protects him against being taken in by the plausible but false 
or incomplete. 
It gives him the alternatives so that he can choose and 
make a decision, but also so that he is not lost in the fog when his 
decision proves deficient or wrong in execution. And it forces the 
imagination—his own and that of his associates. 
REFUSAL TO SUBMIT TO INDUCTION 
The conscientious objector who is under orders of induction, but 
who will follow his original conscientious scruples and will refuse 
to obey that order, must decide at what point he will draw the 
line. 
If he draws it too soon, he will lose the possibilities which 
exist for him to get a judicial review of his classification in the 
courts (see below); thus, it is almost certain that if he fails to appear 
at all when ordered for induction the courts will refuse to review 
his classification, no matter how arbitrary, unjust, or illegal it may 
be, on the grounds that he has not exhausted his administrative 
remedies. 
But, if he reports and goes too far, and submits to 
induction, then he is in the Army and subject to military law. 
A registrant who has failed to report for induction, or who has 
reported but refused to submit to induction, will be reported 
by his local board as a delinquent to the United States Attorney. 
Arrest may follow immediately; usually, a period of from three 
weeks to three or more months elapses between violation and 
arrest, 
e 
The opinions on the law which follow are for the general infor- 
mation of C.O.'s, and are not intended as a substitute for legal 
counsel. 
