' Yes, you too can manipulate the Establishment! How? Simple— 
_ at member prices in a given time period. 
_ the Mainstream Book Club eight times. 
Anonymous suggests 
I'd like to suggest the TIME-LIFE Reading Program for your 
consideration. Your review of their Science series was interesting, 
and accurate. The TRP is much the same. 
Once every two months, subscribers to the program receive four 
 Jarge (8%" x 5¥%"') paperback books, each costing $1.25, You 
keep the books you want, and ship the others back—getting 
stung both ways for postage, incidentally. 
But the fascination of the program for me is the serendipity 
they send. The series ranges over fields of knowledge like 
random numbers from the Dewey Decimal System. They 
have a TV play about graverobbers written by Dylan Thomas, 
a collection of the favorite poems of some 250 poets, an 
— 
architectural history of Notre-Dame-de-Paris; plus novels, 
biographies, travelogues, history, philosophy, ecology ... 
| had a job last summer with a lot of time on my hands, so | 
assigned myself to catching. up with the accumulation of TRP 
books. 
} just took them as they were on my bookshelf, left to 
right. Travelled with FitzRoy MacLean to Samarkand; saw 
the 19th century out with Henry Adams; learned that 
mosquitoes five in levels in forests like fish in the sea, and 
laughed out loud reading a portrait of Machiavelli in “The Man 
of the Renaissance.’ 
TRP goes in for books which are difficult to find, if not entirely 
out of print. Such resurrection is a good thing. 
| am advised by friends who worry about such things that some of 
the volumes are available elsewhere in cheaper editions. 
lf you’re 
like me, though, you wouldn’t buy them, but when Time sends 
them in the mail you’re too lazy to send them back. Besides which 
the artwork on the covers is outstanding. 
How you get in is a mystery to me. They had an introductory offer i 
in TIME three years ago (which was when | got aboard) and | 
haven't seen one since. 
It’s not likely that they'll turn you away, 
though, if you write them. TIME-LIFE Books, Time-Life Bldg., 
Chicago, III.,60611--- 
‘ 
A final suggestion for other tool-gatherers who've noticed the 
high cost of books in general and reference works in particular: 
At last! You can make the system work for you! 
through the intro offers of book and record clubs. 
Most every book club has come-on offers to make your mouth 
water—seventy-three books, all for only thirty-eight cents and two 
boxtops. Seriously, though, there are some good buys. The 
condition, of course, is that you buy a certain number of books 
What the clubs hope for is that you stay in. What you do is get 
out. 
Fulfill your minimum obligation and resign your membership. 
The next time a good offer comes up, join. (It helps if you've 
changed your name or your adress in the meantime. 
If not, 
join your wife, your kid, your parakeet.) A friend has joined 
Here’s how he does it. Their latest ad offers five books for $1, 
if you buy four more books in the next two years. That's 
worth up to $85 when you send it in. There's almost no way 
four book-club books will cost you $85, so you come out ten, 
twenty, forty dollars to the good. 
(I'd just as soon’ You'didn’t put my name'down for this, if 
you use it, because some of my book clubs may get your 
catalog.) 
Detroit, M ichigan 
‘Book discounts 
The more casual or broke book buyer might like to know 
i 
where almost every book in print can be bought for either 
= 
15% or 33% off list price. The larger discount is available 
LI 
on about half the publishers, the smaller discount on the 
rest. There is no entry fee to this. ... An additional good 
point is that you save sales tax. 
Enclosed is the material from E.R. Hamilton. You might like 
to include his service in the Catalog. He sends order forms, 
envelopes and the enclosed publishers list free on request. 
The very best 
David G. Baxter 
Los Angeles, CA 
from: 
Edward R. Hamilton 
P.O. Box 1023 
Danbury, Conn. 06810 
Science House Publishers 
*Scientific American Inc 
William R. Scott Inc 
*Scott Foresman & Co 
Charles Scribner’s Sons 
Seabury Press Inc 
Select Books 
*Self Help Books 
Sheed & Ward Inc 
Sherbourne Press Inc 
Magazine subscription discounts 
Re: magazine subscriptions—one should never subscribe 
through the magazine itself—do it through 
a 
LE 
sohn muir 
Publishers Clearing House 
= 1969; 242 pp. 
382 Main St. 
‘ 
: 
Port Washington, N.Y. 
To $5.50 postpaid ($5.72 in N.M.) 
; 
: 
‘ 
ile 
John Muir Publications 
i 
Sawn der icrn: 
They will match any cheaper offer or refund the difference {= 
Box 613 
asain peane 
Write for their current price list. 
FL 
Santa Fe, NM 87501 
9010 7th St. 
‘Donald McKenzie 
LI 
or WHOLE EARTH 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
‘Berkeley, CA 
TE 
CATALOG 
iE How to Keep Your Volkswagen Alive 
Cooking High 
i 
For those of us living over 5,000 ft up — BAKING AT 
1 
HIGH ALTITUDE, cake, cookie and quickbread recipes 
i 
adjusted for cooking about 5000 feet and adjusted again 
for over 7000 feet cooking. 1T IS FREE. Put out by 
the University of Wyoming. Write for: Bulletin 427 
Write to: 
Agricultural Experiment Station 
University of Wyoming 
Laramie 82070 
Tom Duckworth 
Embudo, NM 
tot ee 
bet bal 
rot bb 
A Better Volkswagen Book 
John Muir has written what may well be your V.W.’s best 
friend. In this book you are invited to ‘’Just take the book 
out to the car with your coveralls on for a guided tour.” 
So | did. My guided tour of the car and the book’s easily 
versed descriptions convinced me that it is the best I've 
encountered yet. It’s written for the layman (us), and as 
such makes about 80% of the common V.W. ailments both 
clear and repairable. 
If you take it literally, you will learn to “feel the car’’ and 
ii 
perform the necessary tasks with love. There are also many 
[oJ 
pages devoted to what you can do when hung up on the mud 
ili 
flats for one reason or another. While ““Volkswagen Technical=] 
f 
Manual” contains more pictures of the beast, “Volkswagen 
i 
Alive’ is what | would prefer to have when it’s time to 
unroll the metric wrenches. 
if 
Don Burns 
UF 
Berkeley 
UF 
HOW TO KEEP YOUR VOLKSWAGEN ALIVE ETC.... UF 
OK so here’s a good book on how to fix your VW written 
UF 
fix 
in achuummy style that will not be too amusing the second 
time you read it. There’s a real collection of tricks and pit- 
falls that to my mind is well worth the money. But some of 
1 
them are rehashes of old wives tales are are not true (there’s UF 
a bit about the VW Understeer. What makes the VWdan- 
 [f-] 
gerous is Oversteer: 
it steers more than you tell it to. Also, AL 
some of the really damnable aspects of repairing old VWs : 
TE 
such as headlights that are about as bright as birthday cake LE 
candles, are simply and groovily dismissed without telling 
als 
you how to do anything about it. HOWEVER ...an 
| 
idiot can actually do major repairs on his VW with the aid 
of this book, and that, friends, is saying a lot. | would 
recommend that you have this and the Elfrink book at 
your side. John Muir also gives lists of tools you need, 
which hand to hold them in, and when to stop for a 
morale-building smoke. He also tells you when to quit 
and what not to attempt. Any VW owner should be 
able to save the price of the book within a week of 
getting it. Reading it will aid you in keeping your bug 
out of the shop in the first place. There’s a “‘how to 
buy a used VW” chapter too! And he starts out 
“Come to kindly terms with your Ass for it bears you.” 
Indeed. 
I'd call it indispensible. 
indeed 
who owned the 8th VW in U.S. at 
one time. and has driven VW 582,000 
miles, in the nonce. 
Saratoga, CA 
love, Jay Baldwin 
FORSEDAN GHIA 
&TRANSPORTER 
OLKSWAGEN ALIVE 
MI A_MANUAL OF 
GQ 
_ The Catalogue has offered people a fair introduction to 
Mysticism 
A nice supplement to Marshal Lee’s Bookmaking is 
The Design of Books by Adrian Wilson—Reinhold, 
New York. Although less comprehensive than Lee’s, 
it gives one a better introduction to the creative pos- 
sibilities of design. Design books, but magnificently! 
For around $7.00 the U.S. Navy sells, through the 
Government Printing Office, a training manual called, | 
think, Lithographer’s Mate 2,3. It covers a great deal of 
ground, including some photography, from basic type- 
setting, Varityping, graphic arts camerawork, plate- 
making, all the way to running various types of litho 
presses. 
It seems to be pretty solid. 
the various esoteric religious forms: Yoga, Zen meditation, 
| Ching, the Tao of Lao Tse. 
Evelyn Underhill’s Mysticism—a Dutton paperback, New 
York, 520 pp., $2.45—is the best book on Western 
religious experience. Dealing only peripherally with 
dogma, theology, the author makes a thorough and well- 
written comparison of recurrent experience in the inner 
development of individual Christian and Moslem mystics. 
Here we stand suddenly at the confines of human thought 
_, it is intensely cold here; it is intensely dark; and yet you 
will find nothing but flames and light. 
(M. Maeterlinck) 
All there is so still and mysterious and so desolate... this 
Wilderness is the Quiet Desert. 
..- 
(John Tauler) 
This is the dim silence where all lovers lose themselves. 
. 
(John Ruysbroeck) 
[It] 
looks upon itself as one that is placed in a profound and 
vast solitude whither no creature can come, and which seems an 
immense wilderness without limits. 
(St. John of the Cross) 
Mysticism concludes with a historical sketch of European 
mysticism from the beginnings of the Christian era to the 
death of Blake. The book has an enormous bibliography. 
Use it or lose it—it’s a tool. 
I’m surprised that no one seems to have mentioned H.D. 
Thoreau. Things said in Walden are so very basic to the 
idea of the Catalogue: 
| went to the woods because | wished to live deliberately. 
| am convinced, both by faith and experience, that to maintain 
one’s self on this earth is not a hardship but a pastime if we will 
live simply but wisely. 
_ it is not necessary that a man should 
earn his living by the sweat of his brow, unless he sweats easier 
than | do. 
Cultivate poverty like a garden herb, like sage. Do not trouble 
yourself much to get new things, whether clothes or friends. 
Turn to the old; return to them. Things do not change; we 
change. Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. 
We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by 
mechanical aids, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn... 
| know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable 
ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious endeavor... 
. 
To affect the quality of the day, that is the highest of arts. 
The cheapest edition of Walden seems to be the Harper 
& Row Perennial Classic, at $ .50. 
Dan Gridley 
San Francisco, CA 
Square Dollar 
It really bugs me that so few people (that I’ve met, anyway) 
know anything about Square $ Books. The enclosed review 
should give you the picture of what they are about. Suffice 
it to add that on the back cover of the Agassiz book, printed 
in 1953, Marshall McLuhan, probably one of the most 
observant men around, is listed as one of the five members 
of the Advisory Committee. 
The Agassiz book isn’t really so good, it emphasizes all of 
what | would consider his worst qualities 
. 
. 
. attempts to 
see a divine plan in nature. There are better Agassiz books, 
like The Intelligence of Louis Agassiz, by Guy Davenport 
(Beacon Press, 1963, $5); but the Fenollosa book definitely 
belongs in your Communication section, and the money 
books might well fit in with your stuff on economics 
(I 
~ haven’t read them). 
The Pioche, Nevada, address is two years old, but | think it 
is probably still valid. T. David Horton is a lawyer, must be 
an interesting man. 
A book that fits in well with these and is cheap (the Square 
Dollar Books are all $1) is ABC of Reading by Ezra Pound, 
an excellent antidote to college lit courses. The theme is 
don't believe what you're told, get off your behind and 
find out for yourself.’ Pound also discusses writing here. 
New Directions, NDP89, $1.45, 333 Sixth Ave., New 
York 10014. 
If the commune people are book-freaks 
(bead-game players?) like me, they might benefit from 
Pound's medicine. 
Frank Deis 
Richmond, Va. 
T. David Horton, P.O. Box 507 
Pioche, Nev. 89043 
1. The Chinese Written Character as a medium for Poetry, 
by Ernest Fenollosa, (and in the same volume) 
The Unwobbling Pivot and 
The Great Digest, of Confucius, translated by Ezra Pound 
- 
The Analects of Confucius, translated by Ezra Pound 
. Gists from Agassiz 
or Passages on the Intelligence Working in Nature. 
_ Barbara Villiers, or a History of Monetary Crimes. 
by Alexander Del Mar. 
. Bank of the United States, by Thomas H. Benton 
Del Mar on Roman and Moslem Moneys 
SQUARE $ SERIES. 
an 
& 
WN 
1 
