From Arthur Godfrey to Esquire 
Incredible as it may seem, man now finds himself actually listed 
as one of the endangered species, not in the next thousand years 
or even the next hundred—but within the next thirty years—all 
that’s left of the twentieth century. 
That isn’t very much time. To my generation, thirty years is a mere 
snap of the fingers. Thirty years ago Hitler had just struck in Poland, 
but World War II was still two years away. 
F. D. R. hadn't completed 
his second term and Mussolini was riding high in Italy, and it all seems 
as though it were just yesterday. Mark you, those under thirty: 
today will seem just like yesterday to you, too, in 1995 and 1999— 
if anyone still lives! 
Don’t laugh and don’t shrug: many astute ecologists are convinced we 
already have had it! They've been trying to tell us so for some time. 
Still, | think we'd be less than human if we didn’t hope, so let’s look 
at the facts: 
man evolved, we are told, about two and a half million 
years ago. 
|n all that time he never numbered more than four or 
five hundred million, until about the beginning of the nineteenth 
century. 
Despite a few festering spots of human concentration 
like Rome, Athens, Cairo, India and the Far East, Nature seemed 
always quite able to handle the situation insofar as pollution was 
concerned. 
Plagues, droughts, pestilences, starvation and wars had 
always kept the human population under contro! and the winds 
diffused the smoke and the smells. Man fouled his lakes, rivers and 
harbors with his wastes and debris, of course, but the rains and tides 
pretty well cleansed them away. The forests of the lands and the 
diatoms of the seas kept the biosphere fresh with oxygen and the 
entire planet was very nearly the paradise the Creator obviously 
had intended it to be. 
While it is true that man, in his stupid greed, had learned ten 
thousand years ago to measure his wealth in gold and jewels and 
slaves, he mined no coal, drilled no oil and fouled no air with 
fossil fuels and their non-biodegradable poisons. 
He was as barbarous 
and arrogant and as much the egomaniac that he still can be and often 
is, but he possessed no really harmful technology. 
In fact, his childish 
antics must have highly amused the gods of his early days. 
But.in the first third of the nineteenth century, he began to get the 
smarts, as the saying goes. 
He began to learn how to “‘conquer”’ the 
wilderness and starvation and disease and, come 1830, the world saw 
its first billion people alive and kicking at one and the same time. 
Two and a half million years had been required to accomplish this— 
but lo and behold, in just barely the next one hundred years, the 
““progress’’ was such that the population had doubled. 
That was in 1930. By 1960, only thirty years later, the count was 
three billion! 
And here we are, at the end of the Sixties, barely ten 
years later, at better than three and a half billion. 
It doesn’t take 
much mathematics to calculate that at this geometric rate, the 
population of the world by 1999 has got to be seven billion! 
This planet, | think, was never intended to support that many 
people! Even without the coal and the oil and the internal- 
combustion engines and the diesels and the factory and nuclear 
wastes and the thermal pollution and all the rest of it, it is doubtful 
that nature could handle even just the feces of seven billion people! 
That’s why some ecologists think we've had it: runaway technology 
has resulted in such unimaginable population expansion that our 
environment just can’t handle it anymore. We have so badly polluted 
our waters that the plankton that feeds the diatoms, which furnish 
seventy percent of our oxygen, is disappearing from the sea. The 
remaining thirty percent of our oxygen supply comes from our 
forests, and anyone with half an eye can see what has happened 
to them. 
Everything points to the moment soon when the oxygen 
content of our atmosphere will fall below the minimum required 
to support life as we know it—and that moment isn’t very far off. 
Why this isn’t generally understood is beyond me. 
Asa 
pilot, as 
a sailor, as a farmer, as a hunter and fisherman—nay, as just a lover 
of the outdoors!—I have been very conscious of the deterioration 
of our environment for many years; ever since the end of World 
War II, in fact. 
| worried about it and talked about it with my 
friends and on my daily nationwide broadcasts. 
The late Rachel Carson's book The Silent Spring electrified the 
country a few years ago but still there was no accurate documentation. 
| personally had noted the pollution of the Hackensack, Passaic, 
Delaware and Potomac Rivers where | had once fished and crabbed 
to my heart’s content. 
| had observed that, whereas formerly it 
had been an easy matter for a pilot to find the nearest city merely by 
heading for the closest smog, this was no longer the case along the 
eastern seaboard. The entire area has become a solid mass of fog 
and smoke and gook. 
| had also noted the scarcity of eagles and 
hawks that once were plentiful, not to mention the wily crow and 
the wise old owls. 
All these things told me something was very 
wrong, but | didn’t know what to do about it. 
| continued to hunt big game for trophies. 
|, too, pumped raw 
sewage into the waters cruised in my boat and, once out of sight 
of land, | dumped the garbage overboard, as is the custom. 
| 
smoked cigarettes and flipped the butts into the nearest gutter, 
missing most of the time. When the pack was empty, | dropped 
that in the street, too. 
In the fall, | raked the leaves off of my 
lawn and burned them in huge bonfires. 
Like most of my fellows, 
| was a thoughtless, careless citizen of the world traveling everywhere 
and leaving an unbroken trail of trash to mark my progress. 
Then, three years ago, the Rienows, Robert and his wife, Leona, 
published their book Moment in the Sun. 
Here, for the first time 
to my knowledge, was a veritable ecological bible, as it were. 
Here, 
presented in language an untutored but interested person can 
undefstand, are the facts—carefully documented over a period of 
thirty years! 
From November 1969 Esquire, $7.50/yr (monthly) 
from: 
Esquire, 1255 Portland Place, Boulder, Colo. 
80302. 
» The Outlaw Area 
| read the book and | talked about the book and | quoted from the 
book—on the air—every day—day after day. 
| bought and gave 
away several hundred copies to my friends and acquaintances and 
almost anyone who even looked slightly interested. 
Other books.came along, notably Wesly Marx's The Frail Ocean, 
Dr. Paul R. Ehrlich’s The Population Bomb and Science and 
Survival by Barry Commoner. 
| read and | studied. 
| attended 
seminars and symposia. 
| met and talked with leading conser- 
vationists and biologists and, here and there, even a full-fledged 
ecologist—a rare species indeed. 
| invited them to interviews on my 
broadcasts. 
| did and daily do my homework—reading, writing and 
asking questions when I’m in doubt, visiting threatened sites of 
remaining wilderness. 
| had long been a member of the |zaak 
Walton League and Ducks Unlimited, but now | joined more and 
more of these organizations in'my zeal to lend a hand in the 
great work they are all doing. 
His Royal Highness, Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands, President 
of the World Wildlife Fund, appointed me one of his international 
trustees. 
| met the distinguished Dr. Ira Gabrielson, President of 
the U. S. Appeal of the World Wildlife Fund, who appointed me to 
his board also, and Herb Mills, the National Director, who had come 
out of comfortable retirement to take on his strenuous duties. Sam 
and Mary Tay Pryor gave a luncheon one day last year at our Sky 
Club here in New York at which Charles Lindbergh and | delivered 
short talks and raised $375,000 for the Nature Conservancy with which 
to purchase for all posterity the indescribably magnificent Hawaiian 
wilderness of the Seven Sacred Pools on the slopes of Haleakala on 
Maui. Charles Lindbergh, one of the truly great giants of world 
history, who has come out of self-imposed exile from public view 
to devote his remaining days to the cause of conservation! Together, 
we, and all the many hundreds now of dedicated scientists and laymen, 
have noted with great satisfaction the increased media awareness of 
our predicament. 
Hardly a day passes that every newspaper and 
magazine doesn’t carry one or several conservation stories, pollution 
reports, anti-pdllution legislation proposed and enacted. The National 
Wildlife Federation has published the results of a poll which shows 
an overwhelming majority of Americans is very much concerned— 
even willing to pay extra taxes to do something about it! 
Thus far, however, very little has actually been accomplished. 
A long time ago, | began to urge the appointment of a Department 
of Environment. The Secretary, of Cabinet rank, | proposed, 
would be empowered to appoint a Board of Ecological Survey, 
consisting of a dozen or so of the greatest ecologists around. No 
one would be permitted to build a highway, dig a ditch, build a 
dam, ‘‘develop’’ 
a swamp or an estuary. build a jetport or 
anything else without first submitting the plan to this Board. 
The Board would determine all of the likely ecological 
consequences thereof, in advance. 
Momentarily, | was heartened by President Nixon’s announcement 
of his creation of a group for this purpose, but then | read the list: 
himself, Vice-President Agnew, and members of the Cabinet. 
All dedicated Americans, no doubt; but conservationists? Ecologists? 
Only one; 
Dr. Lee A. DuBridge. Senator Henry Jackson’s bill, 
as this is written, holds much more promise. 
What bugs me and my fellow conservationists is why our bureaucrats 
are dragging their feet. They all have even greater access to the 
scientific data to which we have been made privy. The handwriting 
has been clearly written on their walls as well as ours. Why can’t 
they get it through their heads that we are already late? 
Until the facts had been gathered and assembled, no one in particular 
was to blame: we were all guilty of fouling our nests and our atmos- 
phere and waters, carelessly, heedlessly ‘‘conquering’’ our environment. 
But now we do know! And we lave known for some time—and some 
of us have been shouting the incredible truth from the housetops. 
Ignorance is no longer any excuse. 
Hence, | repeat, our country’s highest priority in the 1970's must be 
survival. Not the Vietnamese war, not racism, not communism, not 
leftists nor rightists nor in-between-ists. 
Just survival. 
It is predicted, scientifically, that we shall export our last grain of 
wheat in 1976—just six years away! Why? Because we will have no 
more surpluses to export. 
In fact, we don’t have enough for ourselves. 
| 
lf the population of the world doubles in thirty years, that means it 
will double here, too, in America, unless I’m more successful than | 
have been thus far in promoting vasectomies. 
Gentlemen, don’t cringe, listen: double our present population means 
more than four hundred millions of Americans. We have only five 
hundred million arable, usable acres of soil upon which to raise our 
food. Four into five goes one point two five, doesn’t it? No technology 
in the world is going to coax enough food out of one acre to feed one 
human being one year! 
Beef and lamb will be outlawed by the Eighties 
because it takes six to seven times as much ground to raise protein on 
the hoof as it does in the grain field. We'll all be eating ersatz products 
of technology made of grains and algaes. 
If you've imagined that the 
oceans will make up the deficits, read that book of Wesley Marx’s | 
mentioned: The Frail Ocean. 
It really looks pretty bad for the human race. We have no one to 
blame but ourselves, but that doesn’t help much. We can still beat 
it, | believe. 
But we must not lose another day. 
Anyone care to join me as a Volunteer for Survival? 
Ecology trip 
All through the riots of ‘72 we watched, itching to leave 
the city but somehow still attached. 
| mean, we knew. 
We knew as early as ‘67, but it was so science-fictiony 
that we just kind of dreamed happily over it, making 
incredibly detailed lists, playing with the Ouija Board, 
studying astrology and making predictions in an off- 
handedly superior way. We got disillusioned in ‘68, 
and went on a lot of sidetrips, falling in love, losing it, 
moving, practicing all kinds of odd crafts, having babies. 
_ 
We knew what was happening by ‘69. We had our Whole 
~ 
Earth catalogs, and our stash of Acapulco and Panamanian 
pot seeds, and we were desperately raking bread, working, 
trying to get it together. 
It was a communal trip at first, and gradually it got thinner, ny 
down to the family, and the family seemed to be a lot . 
smaller than we'd thought. Government pamphlets, 
nightsoil, organic gardening, Diesel engines, music, 
meditation and chauvinism mounted. We decided to 
leave in secret. 
All the mediums, most of the astrologers, some of the 
psychics, and even some political economists agreed 
that we were eating the earth into Armageddon. So 
we still waited, planning, collecting. 
In ‘73 we got into 
our bus and split for Oregon. We drove all night and 
the better part of the day, slept just in time to hear on 
the car radio that Red China had started bombing some- 
body, but not us yet, thank God. Wewoke and drove 
— 
again, through the night, and finally we got there, and 
fell out, exhausted. 
In the morning the baby started to 
cry. 
We got up. Outside the curtained windows of our bus, 
through the trees and the virgin country, we saw seven 
tepees, three Volkswagen busses, two school busses, 
_one Renault Dauphine with a pup tent on top of it, a 
half-hewn cabin, two chemical toilets, several dogs, 
more cats, a fire somewhere off in the distance, and 
standing around us were ninety-seven people. They 
looked hungry. They all had long hair. Nobody was 
smiling. 
We ate the ones over thirty first. 
Later, the soldiers came. 
What's wrong with this*story? 
from Tuesday's Child—Vol. 1, No. 1.0% 
The Crisis of Crises 
What finally makes all of our crises 
still more dangerous is that they are 
now coming on top of each other. Most 
administrations are able to endure or 
even enjoy an occasional 
crisis, with 
everyone 
working 
late together 
and 
getting a new sense of importance and 
unity. What they are not prepared to 
deal with are multiple crises, a crisis of 
crises all at one time. This is what hap- 
pened in New York City in 1968 when 
the Ocean Hill-Brownsville teacher and 
race strike was combined with a police 
strike, on top of a garbage strike, on 
top 
of. 
a 
longshoremen’s ° strike, 
all 
within a few days _of each other. 
When something like this happens, 
the staffs get jumpy with smoke and 
coffee and alcohol, the mediators be- 
come exhausted, and the administrators 
find themselves running two crises be- 
hind. Every problem may escalate be- 
cause those involved no longer have 
time to think straight. What would have 
happened in the Cuban missile’ crisis if 
the East Coast power blackout had oc- 
curred by accident that same day? Or 
if the “hot line” between Washington 
and Moscow had gone dead? There 
might have been hours of misinterpre- 
tation, and some fatally different deci- 
sions. 
; 
I think this multiplication of domes- 
tic and international crises today will 
— 
shorten that short half-life. In the con-— 
tinued absence of better ways of head- 
ing off these multiple crises, our half- 
life may no longer be 10 or 20 years, 
but more like 5 to 10 years, or less. We 
may have even less than a 50-50 chance 
of living until 1980. 
