. 
~~ 
| 
| 
= 
| 
— 
69 Palimalu Drive 
hae 
: 
_ The best books on boat design & construction | have yet 
his other books are fascinating but mostly concern 
~ Chapelle has got to be the worlds best draftsman—and 
his writing is alive and entertaining and therefor 
Materials: 
Fiberglass & polyester resin is now cheaper than 
glass, weighs 120 Ibs & carries 3 people. We have surfed 
camping equipment. 
It features a table of specific details for 
_Catalog is a must no matter who you buy from. They also rent 
‘equipment, give advice, and run a mountain climbing school! 
‘the only sensibly written chapter on the special problems faced by 
women on camping trips, a good chapter on taking the children, 
Included are handbooks on Herbs, Biological Control of Plant 
Magazine & Book Co, Menlo Pk, Cal 94025 
mas 
ces Water 
Herbs for every Garden; Gertrude B. Foster E.P. Dutton & Co., Inc. 
aT, 
Lake and Stream Water 
N.Y. $4.95 
‘com 
Hard Water 
~Sears & Roebuck Co sells, through the catalog, work denim in 
— 
Make a Boat 
Ranch duds 
mel Neoprene snowshoe binding 
Having grown up on an island, the ocean is the main thing 
May | suggest: 
| thought you might be interested in my business making 
around here and we are heavily involved in boats and similar 
Western Ranchman & Outfitters (catalog) 
~ 
, 
snowshoe bindings, so I’m enclosing a circular describing 
marine environmental controls. 
St 
210 W. 16 Street 
© 
PTE 
it and a sample of the material. 
It isn’t clear to me whether 
: 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001 
dtd 
| as the manufacturer-of the item am entitledito review it 
for the Catalog, but in any case | have done so. 
Everything from Levis & cowboy boots to dress up 
satin cowboy shirts and square-dance dresses. 
Affe 
Best wishes, 
Nancy Dine 
; 
Bruce Beck 
London, England 
i 
Beck Outdoor Projects 
RFD No. 1 
Franklin, N.H. 03235 
found are by Howard |. Chapelle and of these, Yacht 
Designing and Planning, Boat Building; and American 
Small Sailing Craft are the most significant & useful— 
bigger ships & history—all are beutifully illustrated— 
incredibly educational. 
: 
W. W. Norton & Co. New York, N.Y. 
7 
wood for boats in Hawaii & probably elsewhere. We are 
using thin wood forms with heavy glass skins for |-off 
designs now & fiberglass turns out to be maybe twice as 
costly as ferrocement but easier & more dependable— 
Quality control with F.C. is very difficult and if you 
screw up its all over. 
j 
Ocean People & Polynesian Boats: A loose group of 
people who dig on the ocean & are into boats & oceanic 
things. We are into Polynesian Boats a lot as they are a 
real dymaxion approach to the marine environment— 
a 20’ proa built last year cost $200.00 including sail & 
paddles. It carries 6 people & could be lived on by a couple. 
Our standard boat is a 16’ outrigger canoe which is fiber- 
them in 6’ surf & haven’t broken one yet. We sell ‘em for 
$250.00—$350 for sailing version. We haven't sold a lot, 
but they keep body & soul together. At any rate, | think 
people who mess with the ocean should look into the 
Polynesian concept as the most efficient approach to 
the ocean as canoes-outriggers, cats & tris can be made 
really easily & cheaply & are very seaworthy and can 
be very fast indeed. Anyone interested in this can contact 
me & | will try to turn them on to the max boat for min.$. 
; 
Hunt Evans Johnsen 
Ocean People 
REGULAR MODEL makes use of the design used widely over 
this continent by trappers, lumberjacks, and real outdoorsmen— 
men who sometimes must be on snowshoes 25 hours a day. We 
have replaced their leather straps with neoprene-nylon, which 
lasts longer and doesn’t stretch. We have added riveted tabs for 
adjustability in the arch area, and special length-adjusters where 
heel straps attach to snowshoe crossbar. Three buckles per 
shoe (heel strap buckle shown in photo No.2). 
All ends pointed, 
all holes punched clean. Standard size shown, the first item on 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96817 
page 1 list. 7.00 ppd. 
] Scuba supplies 
Ballooning 
i Skin diving (with mask, snorkel, fins, etc.) and/or scuba diving (with pd 
tanks of air) are healthy recreation which allow one to see and enter 
4 
a completely different world where he is surrounded by a different 
medium (water) and different flora and fauna from those which he 
has experienced in his lifetime. 
| have found the best place to buy equipment on the east coast, and 
| think the west coast. 
It is New England Divers Inc., Beverly, 
Mass. They are the distributers of diving equipment to the eastern 
sports shops and will sell to individuals, in small or large quantity, 
all brands of diving equipment at the same price that they sell it 
' 
to the sports shops. They sell over their counter, by mail, or by 
phone (one can call collect from anywhere in the continental U.S. 
for an order over $50.). 
: 
4d 
The ‘‘salesmen”’ in the store are all extremely experienced 
h 
professional divers. They have given me knowlegeable and 
honest advise with their low prices. 
Last spring | was preparing 
to go to Turkey on a deep diving underwater archeological 
expedition sponsored by the National Geographic Society. 
Outdoor stuff 
There’s a magazine for balloonists: 
Ballooning 
Eastern Mountain Sports Inc. 
Deke Sonnichsen, ed. 
1041 Commonwealth Ave. 
Boston, Mass. 02215 
$2/ yr, quarterly ($3 foreign) 
from: 
Ballooning 
Menlo Oaks Balloon Field 
Menlo Oaks, CA 94025 
Their catalog (FREE) is a veritable Consumer Reports of 
stoves (including boiling time for one quart tap water), Table 
of Specific Details for sleeping bags: (including inches of loft), 
Specific Details of cubic volume of Stuff sacks (clearifies the 
entire matter of comparing different brands & sizes in one simple 
table), Tables of Spec. Det. of Tents, Packs, Packframes, etc. This 
Surely you know the Sierra Club Wilderness Handbook Edited by: 
David Brower. A Sierra Club—Ballantine Book 95¢ 
Originally intended as a handbook for those planning a Sierra Club 
Trip, this is a fine, keep it simple, camping book which includes 
When | went to their shop to discuss some personal equipment 
purchases with them | found they already knew about the 
expedition and what kind of work I'd be doing. They brought 
up and discussed with me the pro’s and con’s of various equip- 
ment, convincing me not to buy some items and to buy some 
others. When | was in Turkey this summer, isolated from any 
diving shop, | found they had been right in every detail. 
and a seemingly endless (but I’m sure expert) chapter on burro 
management. This one is not for car campers. 
; 
While we are still outdoors there is the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 
1000 Wash. Ave. Brooklyn, NY 11225 
They have about 40 hand- 
books, shiney paper, good photos, 64-112 pages, $1.00-1.25. 
One of the things | bought was a U.S. Divers Calypso “‘]”’ 
regulator which can be purchased in any sports shop at $110. 
These people sell it for $73.70, brand new, with guarentee (this 
: 
. 
: 
is one of the most expensive but also the most reliable regulator). 
Pests, Dye plants & Dyeing, there are new ones coming out all 
P 
gulator) 
the time and they must have some sort of descriptive list available— 
there is one on the back of each handbook. 
Asa 
transition from outdoors to indoors HOW COULD YOU LEAVE 
OUT THE SUNSET BOOKS? They are chock full of lots of well 
explained and illustrated information—right now all of Cambridge 
has gone wild over the Sunset Cookbook of Breads. $1.95 Lane 
Warren Riess 
Norwich, Conn. 
Sen 
Water Purifier 
MAKES CRYSTAL CLEAR, DISTILLED WATER FROM 
Contaminated Water 
REMOVES ALL SOLID IMPURITIES 
AS EASY TO OPERATE AS A COFFEE POT 
NO FILTERS TO CHANGE 
STARTS UP IN FIVE MINUTES 
COMPLETELY SAFE 
a 
MAKES UP TO 2 QUARTS OF PURE WATER-EVERY HOUR 
i 
USES HEAT FROM ANY SOURCE 
Camp Stove 
Sports Stove 
Camp Lantern 
Gas or Electric Range 
Campfire (bed of coals) 
Laboratory Burner 
Mrs Foster is editor, along with Mr. Foster, of the Herb Grower 
Magazine (5.00 a year order from Falls Village, Connecticut) a 
sort of continuing conversation between friends about herbs. The 
book is a marvelous reference work on how to grow just about 
any herb. Each listing is divided into: height, Leaf & Blossom, 
habitat, culture and uses. Mrs Foster has grown all these herbs 
and she knows what she is writing about. Subscribers to the mag.: 
(a quarterly) are allowed to send problems and questions to her 
and to visit her garden of over 250 species of herbs. 
dark blue. 38” wide, 87¢ a yard. You might mention how hard 
it is to get them to give you a catalog the first time. 
The Appalachian Trail! 
a continuous marked path—for foot 
travel—through the mountain wilderness of the Eastern Atlantic 
States. 
It’s over 2000 miles. The Appalachian Trail Conference, 
1718 N St. N.W. Wash. DC 20036 has a publication No. 17 that 
tells about the trail and lists the guides and maps that are avail- 
able from them and their affiliated organizations. Since they 
have a limited volunteer staff they don’t like individual inquiries— 
they claim they have answered all your questions in their 
— 
booklets so write for Pub. 17 before you go asking them 
questions. 
; 
The QUENCH Water De-Salter/Purifier supplies fresh water 
wherever you are. 
All that’s needed is a source of water; any 
water, and a source of concentrated heat; any heat. The 
QUENCH De-Salter delivers up to two quarts of fresh, clear, 
salt and mineral free, distilled water every hour for as little 
Rachel Kopel 
as 1¢ per quart. 
Cambridge, Mass. 
Cost: $100. 
~ 
Terraqua Marketing Division 
Exri International, Inc. 
1660 11th Street 
Denver, Colorado 80204 U.S.A. 
