There were as many Hunger Shows as there were participants (170, counting those 
starving on the Hog Farm buses travelling from New Mexico during the event). So 
rather than try to solo a description I’d rather ride tandem with Rick Field’s account 
and Tari Reim’s mid-week report for the Berkeley Tribe. 
The highly public place turned out to be a 
parking lot for a motel turned poverty center 
in Hayward, California. The Southwest 
Electric Campfire nomad architects circled 
the concrete with a polyethylene air-filled 
wall about four feet high. It had been 
planned to hold the show inside a giant 
space-egg of the same semi-transparent 
membraneous material. 
But the fire chief 
declared it a fire hazard, so the wall was a 
last-minute innovation. Not until it was 
fully inflated did we realize it looked exactly 
like the bulging sides of a rubber raft. 
Inside we had ourselves, a sound system, 
television, water, chemical toilets and 
whatever anybody brought. We flew world 
flags, the ones showing earth as seen from a 
satellite. About one-hundred twenty weighed 
in before the supposed one-way door closed 
at 6 P.M. Saturday. 
People kept arriving as late as Wednesday. It 
was decided to let each new-comer ask every- 
one on board for permission to join. They 
spoke to us from outside the wall, using a 
microphone. The crew then voted yes or no, 
usually by voice. 
No one was denied. Though a sizable minor- 
ity wanted to stick to the dead-line. 
The first division appeared here: some took 
the Liferaft as a vow, and wanted to play the 
game close. Others didn’t like the role of 
insider refusing outsider; they pushed for the 
opening up of the Liferaft game. A familiar 
commune problem, population pressure, how 
not to close off and yet not be swamped. We, 
however, had enough room—at least we did 
as long as we stayed in Hayward. And we 
had no problems feeding everyone. There 
was enough plain water, ice, and even an 
occasional treat of hot water; “‘tealess tea.” 
We had none of the kitchen problems of 
large groups. No hassles about diet, cooking, 
cleaning. (Though we did have our share of 
talk about food, especially diet.) But 
neither did we have the unifying ceremony 
of a common table. 
When you don’t eat you have nothing but 
time. One corner of the raft was given 
over to the technology of communication 
and time-filling. Running this Liferaft brain- 
center was our jestor of ceremonies, Wavey 
Gravy, Hugh Romney of the Hog Farm 
Family. 
The first days records were played when- 
ever no one was speaking over the sound 
system. Imaginary, usually elaborate, 
meals were read for breakfast, lunch and 
dinner. Games were played 
with prizes of plastic fruit. 
Newscasts kept us informed 
of events inside and outside 
© The inflated surround was a wonder. 
Ideal minimal 
barrier. A product of desperation, it couldn't have 
been invented better. 
It was pure vulnerability— 
you could fall over it or cut through it easy as pie. 
We were contained by will and barely anything 
else. 
Signing in Saturday afternoon was a ceremony. 
You weighed yourself on this funky scale and 
signed your weight and name with a pen embedded 
in a plastic asparagus into a big impressive Hog 
Farm book. 
Bonnie Jean conned and supervised. 
This ceremony and the many others were the 
product of Wavey Gravy’s insistence on dramatic 
forms, hard edges to the game. ‘’Play hard and 
play fair’’ is a place where he lives. 
It can un-fuzz 
your mind. 
A hundred or so people. 
It wasn’t enough. We 
weren't crowded. 
(Goodbye, expectations, you 
never had acchance.) And we weren't reflected on 
ourselves; open sky inhaled everything from us. 
All we had in common was plastic fence, the mike 
and sound system, and only gradually hunger. 
Without the open mike the event would have been 
nothing. The sound system was our mutual con- 
sciousness, however cluttered. 
Who was there? An odd lot. A scoutmaster and 
his wife. Calvino, 52. High school girls. A guy, 
never identified, who looked like the vice-pres- 
ident of an electronics firm, and made it through 
to the end. Ecological politicians (no offense): 
Keith Lampe, Stephanie Mills, Gene Schoenfeld, 
me | guess, others. Hog Farmers, hard core and 
fringe—the substance of our population (Bukovitch, 
Tom Law, Reno, Ruffin, Sunshine, Danny, 
Gloria, &&). A blind girl. The filmakers Robert 
Frank and Danny Lyon. Student pres. from SF 
State. 
One of the staff from the poverty offices. 
Dick Raymond from Portola Institute. No narcs. 
the raft. Six medical students had started 
fasting in Salt Lake City. The Hog Farm 
convoy of seven buses was on route to 
join. Sixty of them had begun to fast on 
Saturday. 
We also watched a UN starvation movie on a 
sheet hung from the poverty center balcony, 
and listened to a tape of Kafka’s “Hunger 
Artist.” 
The light-heartedness and activity were 
helpful, but beneath it all there was the 
growing awareness that the sound was never 
off. Since the raft was wall-less there was no 
escaping. Noise pollution of our own environ- 
ment by our own entertainment. The ampli- 
fication was using us more than we were using 
it. 
Some Liferafters left because of this. But 
those who left without first trying to bring 
up the problem via the open microphone—it 
was there for anyone to use—did not grasp 
that we Liferafters could change anything 
we wanted to change. 
Had the model of Liferaft as Earth been more 
deeply felt, there would have been more 
active caring. We create our environment. 
We cannot pretend the world is not our 
environment—an object outside—for we 
cannot leave it. It follows us even as we des- 
troy it. 
Thus leaving the Liferaft because of not liking 
its environment was like leaving the earth— 
an impossibility. Yet many left, giving up 
the game and the vow. 
Quite simply, the Liferaft depended on the 
people in it..Some saw this. Others treated 
the event more passively. They came out of 
curiosity and stayed as long as things were 
“interesting.” Not seeing that the “interest- 
ingness’’ of Liferaft depended on the people 
in it. Stewart Brand, the inventor of the 
From Berkeley Tribe, Oct. 17-23, 1969 
Since the door was closed at 6 pm 
Saturday, the music, the color TV, the 
four 
microphones, 
have been blaring 
away, 
: 
Saturday 
night, Reno-the-jacks-coac’ 
held the World Series of Jacks, After 
exhausting 
preliminary matches, Susy 
B, upset the much-lauded Gloria, much 
to the delight of Hayward fans watching 
from the perimeter. 
Liferaft idea, was conspicuous by his silence. <~Rick, | was wasted. As much cogency as | could 
More interested in what would/could happen 
than in making it happen. 
HKEKE 
On Sunday ABC-TV arrived. They were 
filming a special on ecology activists. They 
were on our side. Could they film us from 
within? 
Another division: some Liferafters were dead 
against mass media; they were the enemy. 
Others felt we could use them. 
Still others 
felt we could convert them, by being open 
and friendly. 
The decision was to let them come in if they 
fasted with us. ABC pleaded. They had impor- 
tant work to do, useful work. They couldn't 
spare the time. So they filmed us over the 
wall. Anyhow, we had our own media inside, 
Robert Frank with an empty stomach filmed 
ABC filming us. 
¢ 
muster was sliding out over the telephone lines to 
the reporters who kept calling. Stephanie-and | 
were the names they knew to ask for, and what- 
ever we said on that fucking phone is what appeared 
in the newspapers—it shouldn't be that way, but 
that’s how it was, and it drained us. 
It was far better with the TV people, because they 
had to come to the scene and would interview 
more people. More important, they saw us, and 
saw us diminish, and began to identify. That 
never happened with the newspapers and radio 
interviews. 
If news is as important to social consciousness as 
~ 
everybody says, how come there's so much sloppy 
reporting? Associated Press (via phone) conjured 
the news that Dr. Schoenfeld was denying people 
aspirin for their headaches, and that fiction was 
printed throughout the United States. Some of the 
underground coverage was better, some much 
worse. You pays your money and you takes your 
chances when you read a newspaper. 
—
o
e
e
ip
et
te
ae
a
