Outlaw Area 
£ 
Loose Talk 2: DOPE ACADEMY 
A few months ago in the Palo Alto area it was popular 
among some high school students to inhale hair-spray. One 
day at the beach a guy took a hit of hair-spray from a 
baggie, said ’’Boy that stuff comes on fast’’, ran a ways 
down the shore, and there died. 
Press uproar, of course, but nowhere in any of the articles, 
editorials, columns, letters could you find a hint of what 
killed the guy. As far as a reader could tell, the boy died of 
bad behavior. 
Did the hair-spray lacquer his lungs? Does 
some ingredient of hairspray affect heartbeat, or replace 
oxygen in the blood? Should he have used the baggie 
differently? What brand of hair-spray was it? No infor- 
mation. 
And that’s irresponsible. 
It has been asserted by many (myself one of them) that 
dope has its uses. 
If that’s a promising hypothesis, then it’s 
time to pursue the matter with some scientific rigor. And 
far beyond the pioneering proofs of therapeutic value and 
creativity enhancement of psychedelics. 
. 
ae 
Because dope lends itself to premature dogma-making, 
there should be several modes of dope academy in operation, 
say for starters: 
: 
Ashram 
Hard core 
Pharmaceutical 
The Ashram—a community of masters and students—could 
investigate exactly how and how not the various dopes can 
aid the spiritual journey. Their job includes reporting what 
they tearn and what remains mysterious. 
Hard Core means, | guess, a kind of dope survival school 
where a person can stick anything he wants into his blood- 
stream—with full individual responsibility for the conse- 
quences. 
|f he wants to shellac his brain, that’s his concern. 
Maybe the school would develop soul retrieval techniques, 
and maybe not. 
Its prime purpose is to discover and report 
the anatomy of what happens in the hairy realms of dope 
use: 
| expect the academy would draw adventurers and 
suicides like moths. 
The Pharmaceutical academy would probably have direct 
affiliation with drug manufacturers. Their research would 
emphasize the chemical aspect of drug research, and not 
with involuntary mice but voluntary humans. Maybe with 
a pharmaceutical dope academy we could at least get some 
straight information on dosage and mixtures of drugs, not 
to mention far better designed drugs than the hodge-podge 
on the market now. 
Of course one perfectly valid approach would be to outlaw 
all mind-bending drugs and force all economic and infor- 
mation traffic into the black market where presumably 
“the invisible hand’’ would sort the value from the value- 
less, the honest dealer from the crooked, and generally 
sharpen everybody to a fine outlaw edge. Which is the 
format we have now. 
And it isn’t so bad. Until you have been folk-lored and 
hyped into a buy of dirty acid, whose bummer is bitter- 
ness without recourse. Dope research does not need to 
be medieval. 
Everybody complains about the present eco- 
nomic and political systems (Ours and Theirs), 
but | don’t see many new ones being tried 
out. Some of the communes revisit barter 
and tribal democracy—which is workable only 
ona smal! scale—and that’s about it. 
What would be most useful is a system that 
generates systems, a scene whose entire 
purpose is to try stuff on a scale that has 
relevance to societies, civilizations. 
Suppose a piece of property that contains a 
mountain valley (the fantasy could equally 
well be a ferro-cement island, but mountains 
are more familiar for fantasy purposes). 
It’s 
a high remote valley with no roads into it—or 
any that exist are destroyed. 
It does have a 
modest airfield. To get to this place you either 
fly in, walk in, or pack in with animals. That’s 
the filter. Either you have plane fare (which 
helps support the place) or sufficient desire 
to walk in. imported materials must be light 
ones. Motor vehicles that cut up the land and 
other intimacies stay out. 
Call the place Place. 
It is owned by the Place 
Company, which has ecological responsibility 
for the land and procedural responsibility for 
the fairness of what goes on. 
The first action at Place is to build a big fence, 
not around it, but down the middle of it. The 
fence (unlike Berlin’s) has numerous open 
gates, holes, tunnels, arches—a very permeable 
wall. A very visible wall. 
It defines East 
Place and West Place. 
To reside at Place (East or West) you pay rent 
to the Place Company, which also determines 
that you don’t mangle the land. The company 
may evict irresponsible land users. Place 
Company bears the same relation as referees 
to a football game. Their function is to keep 
the game fair, determine the minimum rules 
and enforce them minimally, and bear no 
alliance to either side but to the life of the 
game. 
For game it is. Whichever side of the fence 
you inhabit constitutes a team which stands 
opposite to the inhabitants of the other side. 
Relations need be neither hostile nor friendly, 
merely competitive. And you can always 
change sides, provided the other Side wants 
you. 
(This fluid adversary model is the direct 
product of a game we played a few years 
ago at an event called ‘’World War {V"".. There 
was a bunch of people ina field with a 6-foot 
push-ball painted like the Earth. 
| announced 
on a megaphone, “OK, there’s two-kinds of 
people—those who want to push the Earth 
= 
2 
i" ein 
over the row of flags at that end of the field, 
and those who want to push it over that fence 
at the other end. Go to it.’’ For an hour or so 
the ensuing battle went on with no score, 
because whenever the ball approached oneend 
or the other, some of the near-victorious 
te 
players would defect to the underdogs and 
ag 
push the game back in the other direction. 
= 
Playing was more fun than winning or losing. 
— 
The Earth oscillated to and fro on the field 
in a state of perfect dynamic equilibrium, and 
_ 
the game was pure delight.) 
: 
- 
The content of the game of Place is trying 
stuff. The goal of each team is good works. 
Try different political response systems. Try 
different economic systems. Keep what works _ 
and go on to try other stuff. What can be done 
~ 
with lightweight technology to capture and 
employ the abundant mountain sunlight? | What 
social forms make a most pleasant community? 
What education best encourages both mental 
balance and invention? What in fact are the 
most productive questions to pursue? What- 
ever one side tries, occurs in close view of the, 
other, who may incorporate it or try some- 
' 
thing opposite or grandly ignore it or defect 
= 
and join it, leaving a tempting vacuum behind 
them. 
Place is remote from the world physically, yet vera 
intimately linked to it by communication. The 
— 
game has access to the best of new or ancient 
= 
inventions, devices, people, processes going ORG 7 
aj 
eel é 
outside. One public service the game performs — 
is to investigate the better integrationof 
== 
elements now scattered in the world as well 
as to generate new forms. 
| assume considerable interest by the Worked in 
what goes on at Place—both for entertainment 
and instruction: forms which show promise 
— 
S 
in the game may well be generalized elsewhere 
in the world. As in other sports, the audience 
is one-fourth of the tetrahedonal dynamic 
(Team 1, Team 2, refs and audience). Spec- 
tators provide the energy of their attention as 
— 
well as financial energy. What else can account 
for the superhuman deeds of tight ends and 
defensive halfbacks on all those TV Saturdays 
and Sundays? What we're looking 
to do is 
harness that energy to the PULP Oss of Hes 
home world saving.. 
As Earth becomes accaaittee with its Sond i 
2 Be 
finiteness, it has need of cybernetically alive 
: 
5 
systems which ensuré both continuity and 
originality, where evolution may safely con-- : 
ae 
tinue its engrossing play i 
in nats 
fields of the” 
pate 
Sh 
oe, 
Lord. 
oi 
Sees 
1 es 
Let Place bere 
a place for macro- invention in 
this realm. 
; 
; 
: 
