Randy Chakerian suggests 
Back in the Nomadics section: There’s an extremely useful book 
published, again in paper, by Harper Colophon Books, CN128: 
Peter Farb’s The Face of North America, The Natural History of 
a Continent, published in paper in 1968 for $1.95, with 316 pp. 
It has extremely good illustrations, both photographic and other- 
graphic, a very good Index, and an easily readable style which 
incorporates the too-often-disparate sciences of the earth, 
which makes it sort of a book on ecology without trying to 
be one, which is going to be, I'm afraid, increasingly a recommen- 
dation. What with Life and Time and every other subscription- 
oriented journal picking up on Ecology as a way of the future, 
along with David Eisenhower, Julie Néxon, and Birch Bayh, of 
course, it’s already about to die a quiék death. Even the saltiness 
of the people who know what they’fe doing in it isn’t going to 
save them from that all-swallowing sea. But what the hell, that’s 
their problem. 
Farb talks in turn about the Coasts, Inland 
.Waters (all kinds), Mountains, Forests, and Drylands, along with 
a short, too-short section at the egd on Man’s Imprint. However, 
that shortness is what saves it from) being just another book on 
Ecology, which is after all essentially for and by human beings, 
no? The best part of the book, and one which makes it worth 
the price, is the almost-40-page section at the end called ‘‘Out- 
standing Natural Areas of North America, by State and Province.” 
He gives an incredibly complete listing of National and State 
(or Provincial) natural areas of varying degrees of wildness, 
along with a brief characterization of what kinds of natural 
features can be found there, especially the unique or rare ones. 
These almost inevitably tie into the Index, and can be read about 
in their more abstract (ecological?) context in the text of the 
book itself. 
1t seems like a drag that he should list only 
politically set-aside areas, until you realize two things: 
1) there 
ain’t any other areas you can legally go to, as everything is 
owned, but that’s ok because 2) you never realized how few of 
these wild areas you were acquainted with, and also how easily 
the areas you did know tie in with the functioning, both present 
and past, of the whole continent. 
For once in its History 
perhaps the Chicago Tribune was right, in its blurb on the 
paperback’s back cover: 
‘‘This book belongs in the glove 
compartment of every car.’’ or in your pack. Unfortunately it’s 
too big to stick in your back pocket or even your jacket pocket 
usually. 
But maybe that’s a good thing too... 
. 
Two things about Conscientious Objectors (of whom | am at 
present an Official One): CCCO is very good, but swamped. To 
take the load off them a little bit, you might suggest the NSBRO, 
National Service Board for Religious Objectors, which 
isn’t really 
for religious objectors exclusively, as you tend to help anyone 
who looks like a friend when it gets down to being nitty-gritty 
like this is. Their address is somewhere in Washington D.C.— 
550 Washington Building, 15th & New York Avenue, N.W., 
Washingten, D.C, 20005. They publish a bunch of pamphlets 
and things about Conscientious Objection, sort of duplicating 
CCCO’s work, but they publish a compendium of alternative 
service jobs approved by each State Director's Office, which 
helps if you want to move around. 
It also helps if you want to 
get an idea of how meager the possibilities are, unless you've 
got time, or imagination, or hustle, to find yourself a good 
thing. Which | unfortunately didn’t. How about publishing in 
one of your Supplements the suggestion that somebody get 
together and do a listing of non-profit agencies which CO’s might 
work at, say for room and board? CO’s have to work at non- 
profit things, but it’s hard for them to tie-up with things that 
aren’t straight more often than not because they have to geta 
job right away or they just don’t know about things. 
It would 
be hard for someone to get a list going—!’ve thought of it myself, 
because there are a hundred agencies around the country for 
helping you get a CO classification, but none to help you find 
a half-way decent job afterwards—but it’s too big for me, and 
I've got other things to do. However, perhaps the people down 
at Vocations for Social Change might be into it. 
Randy Chakerian 
Seattle, Wash. 
Le 
Knife 
Out in the woods you’ll have use for a good knife. 
If 
you want the genuine humdinger of ‘em all write to the 
Randall Co. Orlando, Fla.. These knives are all handmade 
without a die. You might have to wait a while to get it and 
can easily spend $35—up. | have the model No. 3 witha 
6” blade. 
If you don’t want to spend that much, Buck makes some 
good hunting knives and a fine folding knife for $18. 
Lower in price still is the Case folding hunter for $8. 
A tip to you northern grain eaters who may be spending 
your first hard winter. 
It’s hard to make it in cold 
climes without meat protein. So if your feeling poorly 
try some meat. 
It’s a life cycle too. 
Bill Wolf 
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
We're looking for a negative ion generator. 
Anybody know where we can get one? 
From Earth’s First Groupie 
One of the best books | know of for facts about 
this total place (and all its parts phenomena) is the 
Larousse Encyclopedia of the Earth. 
\t is a basic 
book of explanations—like an Earth Bible—with 
beautiful illustrations—that belongs in your catalog 
because it belongs in people’s awareness. 
It’s not a book for scientists mind you, but it’s a 
book | hug. 
12 
Yours truly, 
Karen Korell 
New York, N.Y. 
Cultural Stuff 
. 
: 
THE OXFORD UNIVERSAL DICTIONARY (now called 
“the Shorter OED" which it isn’t) 
the full history of words in English or full enough 
lots more words than the multi-volume OED 
the only historical dictionary 
great quotes useful for every purpose 
it doesn't tell you what to do it tells you what has been done 
no proper names (not a half-assed encyclopedia) 
records U.S. variants & genuine American words 
no attempt to list every word that has ever appeared 
gives you the whole idea behind a word 
(meanings inhere in words whether or not they are 
consciously current) 
good brief etymologies (drawback: familiarity with Latin assumed) 
dates various usages 
does not imitate or replace other dictionaries 
indispensable for word freaks 
; 
(Suggest reproduce articles for Whole, Earth, Catalogue) 
THE FOUNDATIONS OF MODERN ART by Amadee Ozenfant 
(1928) paperback Dover 
strange & personal book 
a groove of visual resources 
despite unfashionability of Art, great book 
by a friend of Jeanneret (Le Corbusier) 
funny, snappy dialogue 
(Suggest reproduce a horse being shown a portrait 
of itself—illus.) 
EL Suggestion for a new section of your book ANNALS OF CiVILIZATION 
(you know you have no “history” stuff?) 
it is good to know what has been done 
so you don’t have to do it yourself by hit-miss 
list great old books available from libraries (incomplete list) 
suggestions: 
The Memoirs of U.S. Grant (2 vols) 
The Story of the Revolution by Henry Cabot 
Lodge | 
The History of Art by Elie Faure 5 vols. 
The Classical Encyclopedia Britannica 
(1909—The British wrote down everything 
they knew then dissolved the empire & 
sold EB to Chicago). 
LAROUSSE GASTRONOMIQUE in English 
the history of the civilized use of food 
articles on all kinds of Western food & a little oriental 
full access to the secrets 
of the ultimate in Western cooking 
not for ‘‘the modern housewife’ 
read about what you are eating at the dinnertable! 
“It is very difficult to think about anything but food when 
eating.'’ —Gertrude Stein 
(Please include a word of caution about Rambauer-Becker next 
time: the instructions are over-simplified; the recipes are hodge- 
podges; there are a great many obvious errors in the use of the 
symbols & you have to refer all around in the book. Also, the OLD 
Fanny Farmer should be reprinted. Classical American cooking, for 
the faint-hearted) 
HOW TO COOK A WOLF-— by M.F.K. Fisher 
A humanistic survival book for periods of shortage and 
extreme poverty (such as WWI! in Europe) (when 
it was 
written) in Western societies. 
Very funny &a 
little sexy. 
World—publisher, Cleveland. 
Still in print?? 
“To work! to Work! for Heavens sake! The Wolf is at the 
door!" 
(do you hate the French? You have hard! 
anything French in 
your whole thing. They are great.) /Yeah. 
THE PSYCHOANALYSIS OF FIRE by Gaston Bachelard 
the title is misleading to American audiences 
the meaning of alchemy in relation to modern science 
marvellous alchemical stories 
a little book with great implications 
“The less we know about something, the more names we 
give it.” 
Beacon paperbacks. 
(This guy wrote books on Earth, Air, Fire & Water 
(2 vols.) only 1 trans. 
Frederick Ted Castle 
New York, N.Y. 
Clear pictures 
Myth in Art: a Huichol Depicts his Reality is incredible. Worth 
$1.25 (?) from Latin American Center, UCLA. 
Full of fine color 
reproductions of the yarn paintings a north Mexican Peyote Tribe— 
Huichol—Shaman made to illustrate his people’s myths & rituals & 
his visions. Also tells some of the myths & lore & how to make 
yarn paintings. 
Bret Blosser 
L.A., CA 
Much of the best of the Esalen Institute occasions 
(Baba Ram Dass, John Lilly, Fritz Perls, Joseph 
Cambell, Lancelot Law Whyte, Carl Rogers, etc.) 
are available by mail. Cost of the tapes is $10/hr. 
Catalog is free from: 
Big Sur Recordings 
Big Sur, CA 93920 
_ Anyone working in graphic arts will appreciate Formatt’s 
“strike higher than the knee—which fact has been of inestimable _ ‘ 
Food and Good food plays a great part in our lives, Sahadi_ 
Importing Co. Inc. (importers of the Tahini with which many 
are familiar) offer a catalog called The Silent Salesman which. ; 
lists many many east asian, Turkish, Syrian goods: grains, 
sweets, nuts & seeds, olives, cheese, pickles, canned goods, 
dried vegetables, spices, water pipes, musical instruments, 
household items, furniture. Prices on spices is attractive but 
only handle large quantities. Service is not particularly fast 
to the west. Catalog is free. 187-189 Atlantic Ave. Brooklyn, 
N.Y. 11201 phone (212) MA-4-4550. Cable (SANACO)N.Y. 
| am enclosing a price sheet from Sterling H. Nelson and 
ns 
Sons, Inc. [525 South 4th West, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110] 
_ 
They are the cheapest source of Brown Rice | have been able to” a 
discover, Also many other good items. | do not believe 
a: 
they are organic. 
+ 
a 
| have found a good source of seeds in R.H. Shumway 
Seedsman, Box 777, Rockford IIlinois 61101. Though | 
do not believe they have organic seeds they have a huge 
selection. Sorry, no herbs. 
- 
For herb seeds, Greene Herb Gardens, Greene Rhode 
Island, 02827 have virtually every herb imagineable at 
iy 
25¢/packet. Also books and pamphlets (most under 50¢) 
Aas 
on how to grow and use them. 
| suspect they also have 
es 
fresh herbs but do not know if they ship or whatever. 
The Mildred Hatch Library, 8 Pine Street, St. Johnsburg, 
Vermont 05819’ is the source for baking (and nutritional 
yeast. Baking yeast is 95¢/Ib. + postage and the best 
we've ever used. They have a lending library ‘‘on Nutrition 
Sah 
and Some other Essentials of Health’’ ‘‘Borrowed books may __ 
be kept for two weeks for cost of out going postage, repayable ~ 
in stamps. Used books may be returned (with stamps to ia 
cover outgoing postage) for new ones if borrower wishes to 
buy them. There is no obligation to buy borrowed books, 
but postage is paid on those bought.’’ They also have “books 
: 
of special interest to gardeners and farmers” many of which 
— = 
are otherwise hard to find. And books on ‘Pregnancy, Birth, 
Breastfeeding and Child Development” 
Lists will be sent on 
request. They also carry mills, juicers, yogurt culture, 
etc., etc. Food people: 
: 
An excellent supplier of organic whole wheat is Ted A. 
1 
a 
Whitmer, Bloomfield, Montana 59315. They do not 
re 
ship less than 100 Ibs. Prices f.o.b. truck, Glendive, Mont. are: “ af 
; 
100 Ib. in poly-lined burlap bag $ 7.50 
pFe8 
- 1000 Ib.” 
# 
2 
fe 
Poe] 
250 
e 
2000 Ib." 
” 
‘- 
v 
"140.00 
they have steel screw-cap cans for long storage also (40 
Ib. ea): 
: 
oP 
200 Ibs 
$23 
1000 Ibs 
$112.50 
2000 Ibs 
$220. 
They also grind flour (on order) at $12.50 per 100 Ibs but 
Walnut Acres carries the same (probably grind it themselves 
for $15.86/100 Ibs which would be cheaper for Eastern 
ie 
buyers, considering shipping. They also have smaller 
= 
Guantities. ) 
5 
You do not mention in the catalog that Erewhon has a 
western outlet. They do. 8003 Beverly Blvd. Hollywood, 
Calif. Since their products are superior to and cheaper 
than Chico-san—this is the place for we in the west to 
purchase from. 
; 
’ 
fipindsoal+ 
Those wishing to get Chinese foods by mail and also certain 
utensils may obtain same from Cathay Food Products, Inc. 
107 Mott St. New York, N. Y. 10013. Catalog sent on 
request. 
catalog of ‘Modern Multi-use Acetate Graphic Art Aids” 
: 
containing ‘‘Letters-Arrows-Numbers-Rules-Borders-Symbols- 
Ornaments-Shading Mediums."’ for use in designing everything 
from money to maps. FORMATT from Graphic Products 
Corporations, 3810 Industrial Ave., Rolling Meadows, III. 
60008 
; 
Eastern Silk Screeners may obtain anything seragraphic from 
Lambert Co., Inc. 920 Commonwealth Avenue. Boston Mass 
02215 from paint to processing machinery. They maintain 
an excellent screen preparation service for serigraphers also. 
In addition they carry a complete line of art supplies. Catalog 
on request. 
é 
Those in pursuit of higher places will benefit from these 
3 booklets ‘‘Fundamentals of Rock-climbing’’ published 
by the MIT Outing Club, Student Center, Room 490, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass. 
; 
02139. This is a highly recommended short course from 
Ady 
ae 
ae 
which anyone connected with the sport can benefit. 
|t 
he 
covers all the basic maneuvers, belaying, leading, ropehandling 
aah 
and accidents. A very useful book for any one wishing to 
me 
know what it’s all about. Also available at the Ski Hut. $1.00 
ve 
Have discovered that the only sure way to waterproof boots 
om 
Sl 
is with beeswax. Melt the wax and stick a clean boot—preferably 
new—in the oven and heat it so its almost too hot to handle and 
ot 
hh 
retains its heat when taken from the oven. Rub the wax in with 
hts 
a clean cloth, putting the boot in the oven from time to time to a tge 
Oh 
keep the wax liquid. No wax should remain on the surface. A 
ork 
tks 
couple of times is sufficient. 
!f you put too much wax in the 
. 
boots will crack (especially when cold). No other waterproofing 
should be necessary for the rest of the season. 
Incidentally this 
method works well on both oil and chrome tanned leathers, 
though especially on oil-tanned goods (rarely found these days); 
uae 
The silicone waterproofing (such as Huberds Shoe Grease or 
aes 
Snow-Pruf) work better with chrome-tanned leather but 
beeswax is still superior, although it is best used with boots. 
The boots are snakeproof in as much as most snakes cannot 
value to me, several times preventing the extreme pain & anguish 
Yy 
resulting from snakebite. They are called the Botte Sauvage and 
are available from Gokey, 21 West 5 Street, St. Paul., Minn. 55102 
An extremely useful tool (which | am surprised you don’t 
; 
: 
mention) and a very beautiful one—one of the best-engineered 
‘ 
items put out by an American firm & available to consumers— 
4 
is the Questar telescope. They now have 2 models. This is 
unquestionably the finest instrument of its type available today. 
Suggest you write to Questar, New Hope, Pennsylvania for 
ent 
ee 
complete info—it will astound you & everyone. Theyhavea 
ae 
booklet for $1.00 which is full of mind-blowing photographs. 
Neil & Lorraine Wolf 
~ 
Ketchum, Idaho — 
