<N 
~ 
Guy alone sharpens a spoon alone. Stripe of light 
on the stone floor traverses because it is sunlight 
~ 
from the slot of light up the hinge side of the door. 
Leather hinges, wooden door, log walls. The door 
must be locked from outside. Say it'satrap (ic 
does). 
There's a fragment af mirror (okay?) jammed in the 
logs opposite the door. Say meals and water and 
such are taken care of, no explanation. The spoon © 
goes with the food. The 
guy says he’s sharpening .— 
the handle end of the spoon so he can cut the food 
better. On the stone floor he scrapes assiduously. 
_ 
so the spoon will have an edge to cut his food better. 
The work goes better rhythmically, so he hums 
with the scraping. ‘Two sounds, humming and metal; 
. got them? And the guy crouched over his work. 
Dust seethes in the bar of light from the doorcrack. 
Sun comes in from what outside? (Many times, 
any time, he has looked through the crack, regis- 
tered bright grass and bugs and rustlings, meadow 
‘in fact, and visible far line of forest. Forested 
hills, mountain high horizon, sky, cloud code, 
sun... mostly it’s nothing to him. Sometimes 
heartbeat rears up within him and connects with 
- what he cannot grasp and he flays the stubborn 
door or his incessant chest, indifferent targets, 
‘same rage.) 
| 
Stripe of light proceeds—daypass—toward the 
“humming busy back. Stonebright bar of light, 
, bent back, rocking, stone dust; and the two 
‘sounds. You should know the spoon has been 
sharp since yesterday. 
.Superimpose yesterday. The rocking back came toa 
halt yesterday, halted forward pressing the spoon too 
“hard into the rock. And the sound of the scraping 
. 
\ 
Oe, Lhd 
SECOND CLASS 
PERMIT PENDING 
MENLO PARK, CA 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
. 
558 Santa Cruz Avenue 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
was replaced by the deliberate beat.of human skull 
against rock—against knowledge: NOT FOR THE 
FOOD. Try-it: pain goes to flash goes to blank. 
(Later yesterday.) He woke up with a ‘headache and 
a giggle, and hustled to the mirror to see what a 
giggle looked like. Saw beardy grinny face; laughed ~ 
further with shaking head. (Try this.) The shaking 
reflected face had eyes which did not move with the 
face. Instead they opened like mouths. During the 
_madness that ensued he bit himself in the arm and 
acquired a dangerous taste. 
So, for this day’s work the spoon has become no 
sharper, merely less spoon. Skill has increased. 
Despite 
his wounded arm, the guy Is moving ever more 
precisely; taking ever more care with the delicate 
blade in his hands. 
~ The humming and metal scraping, a universe of that. 
Then in.a fresh test of the edge he leans back, and 
the bar of sunlight falls dazzling on the blade. New 
universe. 
What isn’t blade and hand is dark. He doesn’t move, 
just waits for the newness to become familiar (Not 
for the food). 
It’s quiet: 
“Then he goes to the door, kneels there by the crack, 
_ checks on what's outside (meadow, sun), and resumes 
waiting. Heartbeat up, gradually up. 
Leather hinge or incessant heart, either can be cut by 
aknife, friends. Do you Know which is which? 
{The ending | like is: he works on up to frenzy, goes 
abruptly clear, stabs the spoon into the door, stands 
up into calmness, matter-of-factly walks over and 
gets the always-sharp mirror fragment, and-cuts the 
hinges with that. The open door and the mirror and 
the sun make a configuration | leave you with. ] 
\ 
i
i i
be
e
ae,
