We Are Stranded On an Island in Space 
September 20, 1969 
Jerry Mander 
Aspen, Colorado 
John Muir Institute Seminar 
Everyone talks about the Earth being round, but does anyone 
actually believe it? Maybe the problem in really getting the 
idea has to do with understanding the nature of roundness, 
which is that you eventually get back to the same place. That 
is, there’s nowhere else to go, that’s all there is. There is no 
infinity. 
People who live on islands understand the phenomenon very well. 
| have some friends who about three years ago moved to Hawaii 
after living most of their lives on the mainland, and who recently 
wrote me that they are suffering from island sickness, 
a common 
syndrome of expatriate maintanders), which is to spend weekends 
driving clear around the island, maybe more than once, thinking 
that eventually some new direction will appear, but it never does. 
The natives of Hawaii don't have this problem | am told, and as I've 
just returned from the tiny islands in Micronesia, | can tell you that 
most of the natives there don’t have the problem either. 
They know perfectly well what finiteness means and, still undazzled 
by what we westerners know is true—that technology can accomplish 
anything—simply don’t think about getting off the island. Well, in 
history there have been some brave souls in outrigger canoes who 
attempt to cross the seas to see if they can make it, or to see what's on 
the other side. You might think of them as the astronauts of the 
islands, but the difference between the islanders and us is that they 
don’t put much*faith in those canoes ever getting back in time to 
feed anybody next year, or at all, but | think we are all so technology 
crazed that some of us may actually believe our astronauts will lift 
us all off of here the day before we all starve to death. Never mind 
such easy matters as farming the oceans to feed an infinitely growing 
population, as though the oceans were infinite. 
Micronesian “‘out-islanders” in particular—that is, those who live 
across a hundred miles or more of sea from any neighboring islands, 
and whose contact with the rest of the world is limited to the few 
souls who arrive on the eighty foot government boat every six 
months—simply don’t think about infinity, or to put it more ac- 
curately, the idea that everything is possible. 
In order to survive out there by themselves, they’ve had to gain a 
pretty good feeling for pacing the breadfruit production and the 
coconut eating. 
In some of those places the highest crime is 
cutting down a coconut tree without communal permission. 
And on the islands surrounding Yap—where a culture thrives that 
is as nearly untouched by non-island ideas as any in the world—there 
is a very rigid birth control which works this way: Everyone gets 
married very late—late twenties or early thirties. While there is no 
particular emphasis on virginity until then, there is plenty of 
emphasis and sanctions against illegitimate children. 
No man will ever marry 
a woman who has given birth first, and 
consequently the ladies have devised ‘an intrauterine device made 
of hibiscus bark which works as well as the plastic ones and I'll 
bet doesn’t cause cancer. 
What I’m talking about, of course, is balance between man and 
environment. 
In some places it still exists and in other places it 
doesn’t and I’m suggesting that perhaps it's time to take as a 
model! for our future survival-thinking the way islanders have 
managed to do things, because that’s what we're on, it’s round, 
and there’s only so much of everything and in general people 
haven't realized that. 
CP Snow alludes to all this in “State of Siege’’ where-he describes 
the generalized anxiety that everyone, but everyone, seems to be 
feeling these days and says that it is caused by “condensation,” 
that is, the Earth is getting smaller, and there’s no place to hide 
and so people are getting panicky, forming communes on mountain- 
tops, becoming ever more isolationist, not leaving their neighbor- 
hoods, not leaving their homes at night (with good cause) and so 
on. 
Of course it isn’t really condensation, it’s just condensation of 
the mind. What’s happening is we are all living through one of 
our most terrifying dream horrot fantasies; We're locked ina 
~ 
room, and the walls and ceiling are closing in on us. 
All the things we've been raised to worship—Man’s limitless power, the 
ever-giving nature of Mother Earth—all those infinite possibilities, are 
beginning to seem less infinite, in fact the infinite horizon is heading 
this way fast. We should have known all that the minute Columbus did 
his thing. 
| dare say most of us in this room have probably, though perhaps only 
recently, begun to perceive that, but what about everyone else? 
The major struggle in conservation Is obviously what the black studies 
demonstrators called “the need for reeducation.” 
In other words, it 
is a propaganda problem. And, | believe, the propaganda goal might 
very effectively be defined as this: 
Develop an island psychology in everyone on Earth. Maybe we should 
start by giving a few professorships to the out-islanders of Yap. 
But the trouble with that is, as soon as the Y apese arrive (as some of 
course already have, as students in our colleges) they are dazzled by 
such things as roads, and cars and most especially, by the way, canned 
fish. 
It’s reverse culture shock 
. 
. 
. they are prepared to give up their 
house by the sea, their leisure economy, their abundant fruit and 
relaxed loving life—in other words everything all us businessmen 
have been working for—for a Yamaha motorcycle. 
They will be (and are being) as dazzled by technology as we have all 
been because they have never articulated a value judgment to them- 
selves about which way of life is better. They have only known one 
and are stunned by the one, much as a fish is stunned when he sees 
your face mask shining under the water. 
He doesn’t notice the 
spear. 
So in a way while not needing re-education, they are really in need 
of, let’s call them, island appreciation courses... SO if they do opt 
for plastic culture they'll at least know there’s no getting the other 
back. I’m not kidding about this. The educational problem is as 
serious for islanders who already know how to survive on islands 
and who can teach us what we need to know, as it is for the rest 
of us, and if there are any young activist SDS hippie anarchist 
conspirators in the audience, | would respectfully urge you to gO 
and shut down some colleges until they institute Departments of 
Green Studies on your campus, and make it requirement for 
everyone, but most especially students in science, engineering, 
business and government. 
. 
. who, without it, can do the most 
harm. 
CENTER 
FOR 
SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION 
: 
F 
; 
: : 
/ SHORT-LIVED 
: 
PHENOMENA 
a 
a 
ip 
TUE PURPOSE OF 
THE CENTER 
The Center For Short-Lived Phenomena may be des- 
cribed 
as an carly alert system and clearing house for 
the reception and dissemination“of information on 
short-lived natural events such as volcanic eruptions, 
ma jor carthquakes, 
the birth of new 
islands, 
the fall 
of large fireballs and meteorite showers, major short- 
lived environmental pollution, 
and. sudden changes 
in 
biological 
and ecological 
systems such as animal 
migrations and colonizations. 
‘the Center was established 
to improve opportunities 
for research by providing an organization whose func- 
tion 
is to collect. 
and distribute 
information on 
short-lived events while environmental 
changes are 
still occurring. 
Rapid receipt of event reports may 
permit research teams, with their instruments and 
equipment, 
to enter event arcas 
in as short 
a time as 
possible 
to collect important data that might other- 
wise be irretrievably lost 
to science. 
Center participation 
in events 
includes contact 
with event areas, obtaining information and data on 
the events, interviewing reliable witnesses 
in event 
areas, collecting photographic and cinematographic 
documentution, 
issuing event notification reports and 
cables, event information reports and cables, contin- 
uing event status reports, 
final event reports, and 
preliminary results of field investigations. 
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
The Center has access to the responsive international 
communications system of the Smithsonian Astrophysical 
Observatory which 
is capable of reaching virtually any 
point on earth within minutes. 
This Communications 
ability. cnables us to contact 
event areas quickly and 
to notify scientists of events while they are still 
in 
their early stages. 
The Center has developed a capa- 
bility to respond quickly to event reports and is 
currently able to report most significant events within 
a matter of hours after they occur. 
World Game 
The only coverage we've seen 
of the “World Game” work- 
shop in New York last sum- 
mer organized by Ed Schloss- 
berg (Buckminster F uller 
spent 3 weeks on it) was a 
3-page article in Think, the 
IBM house organ. Marty 
Blumsack sent us a copy. 
Who has information on 
how the big World Game 
is coming in Illinois? 
“This is not anexercise in politics,” 
Fuller said to the under-30 group. “We 
want to have tle answers ready when the 
politicians are in trouble and turn to 
” 
US... 
Then, all of us Establishment types can start agitating for something 
f 
a little more respectable sounding: 
say, Departments of Humilities. 
The Humilities curriculum would be the opposite of the sort of 
curricula black studies departments have lately been introducing, whose 
goals are to help some people feel their potency for the first time. 
The Humilities courses would strive to develop a little more feeling 
of impotency. 
Respecting the limits of things, most especially our 
— 
technological toys. 
: 
| realize that the title of my talk, as printed and handed out, had to 
do with expanding the individual so as to reduce his environmental 
demands, so I'd better throw in right here the observation that if 
all of us recognized our quite limited place in the order of things, 
we might relax a little, getting-ahead-wise, and find there was time 
for some other joys we've only barely heard about. 
| didn’t meet 
any Yapese that | could describe as unhappy and they seemed to 
fill their day quite satisfactorily without any of the accoutrements 
we find necessary. 
I’m not advocating any return to nature philosophy, 
though that’s nota bad idea, but | am saying that we don’t have to 
wait for the computer-operated robot men we will soon create to 
turn on us and enslave us like the movies say they will. Their 
technological parents already have. But let’s leave mind 
expanding to the tea-groups for the moment, and get back to 
Humilities. Dave Brower has begun the fight beautifully | think. 
| have heard him speak more than once the nonsense of our 
current economic and political rhetoric, exhorting towards “‘a 
_ 
vigorous expanding economy.” That has to be the first infinite 
idea to go. 
And | like the implications of Dr. Hardin’s Pregnant Pause very 
much and | believe it would work, if pushed hard, but the problem 
is so basic to Western thinking that we must all face the fact that 
re-education means everything, starting in grade schools with some 
kind of environmental studies . 
. 
. maybe even nature walks, 
depending on who's doing the leading. 
ae 
from Nov. 69 Think (bi-monthly), |BM, Armonk, N.Y. 10504 
60 GARDEN STREET 
7 
- 
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS 02138 
> 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
| 
r: 
CABLE 
SATELLITES NEW YORK — 
TELEPHONE 
(617)—864-79! 1 
CORRESPONDENTS OF THE CENTER _ 
In order to establish 
an effective global reporting 
network 
for short-lived events, the Center has invited 
Scientists 
in many disciplines and from many countries 
of the world to join the Center as correspondents. 
These correspondents receive reports on ‘short-lived 
events of interest to them and in return report short- 
lived events occurring in their respective areas. 
Correspondents are scientists, scientific institutions, 
or field stations that cooperate with the Center by 
reporting events, obtaining follow-up information 
about events that occur in their areas, traveling to 
events occurring in their area to make up-to-date 
reports to the Center, and occasionally providing 
assistance to research teams that might be sent to 
investigate events in their areas. 
The Center now has’ over 2000 correspondents located 
in 122 countries on every continent.> 
SERVICES OF THE CENTER 
Event Notification and Information Cards 
The Center notifies subscribers of the occurrence of 
short-lived events through the issuance of Event Notifi- 
cation and Event Information cards. 
These cards are 
issued within 24 hours of the receipt of the event 
in- 
formation by the Center and are immediately dispatched 
to subscribers. 
Event Notification cards contain 
initial 
information on the occurrence of current or 
recent events. 
Event Information cards contain addition- 
al information and data and the current 
status of con- 
tinuing events and/or pre liminary results of field 
expeditions. 
Subscribers indicate the field they are 
interested 
in (earth sciences, biological sciences, 
astrophysical sciences, archacological 
sciences, anth- 
ropological sciences) and receive Event Cards that 
pertain to their field of interest. 
Event Cards are 
primarily intended for research scientists, research 
centers and laboratorics, university departments, and 
teachers. 
Archives, 
libraries, 
news media, government 
departments and environmental research centers may wish 
to receive all event cards issued by the Center. 
Suggested by Bill Hutchison 
Cambridge, Mass. 
eget 
a 
en 
So it’s the schools that in the long run are most important, but 
still, what about meanwhile? Can we really wait for all those 
: 
children—educated better than we are—to grow up and save us? 
Of Course we cannot and | for one am committed 
to the use of 
media to get across the message, which, as an ad writer, let me- 
put this way: 
; 
WE ARE STRANDED ON AN ISLAND IN SPACE: WE ARE Gao 
RUNNING LOW ON FOOD AND WATER: AND (withdue 
Sant 
credit to Dr. Snow) WE SEEM TO BE GOING CRAZY. 
is 
It’s the island part that | think is most important. 
If we can 
convey that notion, somehow, in a mass way, the islandness 
of things, we may have to live through some mass hysteria while 
people drive around (or fly, perhaps) aimlessly, but once they get 
the idea that it’s all a big circle, the race may survive. 
If weall 
go under that won't stop the regenerative process, SO let'sbe 
clear that it’s people that are the endangered species.) 
ay 
| never thought I‘d be glad about the flight to the Moon, butin 
— 
spite of its absurdity, in my view, considering the other needs 
of the day, it may yet turn out to be the critically important thing 
|
from a conservationist’s viewpoint, because it may accelerate the 
idea of Earth as an island. 
: 
i 
It seems to me that if we can get enough pictures of Earth taken © 
from space, and the further away the better, the more the context 
will sink in. We are isolated in all that blackness. We can never, — 
as a race, make it across that sea. This is the only place we have 
ai 
these people on this globe are our only possible friends and love 
We proposed once before in a Sierra Club ad the idea of an Eartl 
National Park; a wildlife island in space, where we are the wildlife. 
It is our only possible home and perhaps we should practice thinkin 
about it in those terms and thinking of more ways Ot pass it along 
d 
‘ 
~ 
Thank you. 
