Kelly Yeaton Suggests 
Suggestions: 
Whole systems .. 
. How did you ever miss L.L. Whyte’s THE NEXT 
DEVELOPMENT IN MAN? Or did you figure that his thought is 
incorporated in Koestler and others? Would you care for more data? 
4 
Its now a Harper paperback. 
Theater .. 
. you probably wouldn’t know ROY MITCHELL’S 
CREATIVE THEATRE recently republished in paper and cloth on 
300 year bond by an admirer and available only through the Drama 
Book Shop, 150 West 52nd , NYC at present. 
| wrote the 
foreword but it is a non-profit publication for us all. 
1’ll enclose 
2 
some quotes. Of all the theatre literature | know, it is the only book 
J 
that seems to me to comprise a whole system as it was then, and 
much of it can never change. Perhaps too specialized a matter, but 
it does deal with the theater as an exercise and art of community, 
with its source in the ancient mysteries. 
|'ve found it trustworthy 
for 40 years, but it doesn’t mean it will work for everybody, of 
course. 
Craft 
Your sources are fine, but where the hell is your 
philosophy? 
I'll enclose a leaflet by Mary Caroline 
Richards whose book on CENTERING | am not 
competent to review for you. 
Listen to her voice and 
you'll realize that something is missing in your list. 
Is Lester Griswold’s 1952 HANDICRAFT out-of-print? 
If not, it belongs in your list, as one of the most 
extensive craft works. Prentice-Hall. 
LIGHT 
There is a lot of conning in the Light Show business 
and a lot of snow jobs going on, but BOB BECK’S 
Light Show Manual (Pericles Press, 1540 Cassil Place, Los 
Angeles 90028) was a good honest compilation of most of the 
best material | have ever seen in one place. Yet, | am not an 
expert. 
But you ought to check to see if he is still publishing 
it. | had trouble getting my copy a few years ago. 
It was 
the 3rd Edition. 
WINE 
You're good on bread, but what about some help 
for the winemakers? 
Presque Isle Wine Cellars in 
Erie and WINE-ART in Ontario publish and supply 
stuff with much intelligence. Perhaps everyone in California 
Knows all they want to know, but Presque Isle is a professional 
supplier of juice and supplies for the amateur winemaker. Very 
nice people to deal with. More white wines than red, of course. 
Can't ship juice, though. So people make annual pilgrimages 
to Erie to pick up their juice for the year and socialize. Come 
from Ohio, New England, West Virginia, etc. 
| know Herters has stuff but he is just as sloppy in that area as 
in many others. 
One other invaluable handbook although it costs too much is 
Viola Spolin’s IMPROVISATION FOR THE THEATRE 
It is the primary source and literal handbook for the ‘‘new 
theatre’ that isn’t just Happenings and Sensitivity stuff. Goes 
under bringing up children, and communications as well. Blends 
right into a lot of the Esalen training like SENSE RELAXATION. 
Kelly Yeaton 
State College, Penna. 
A 
| didn’t want outlets for my energy, | wanted inlets. 
It was hard 
because the propaganda was all toward making me think of myself 
as a verbal intellectual type, though | instinctively knew that this 
was a small part of the picture. 
| have been trying to work toward 
a true idea of the whole picture, and that is what my book 
Centering is about. 
|t turns out it is not so much a picture as an 
evolving life-line. The vine. 
The lie that teachers are not artists puzzled me. 
All sharp divisions 
puzzled me, and rivalries. 
| was not a good fighter. 
| used to 
think it wasn't nice to fight. Now | know we have to fight for 
Our lives all the time. Usually the fight is an inner struggle with 
dragons and cloud-castles, but never mind about that. The point 
is, we suffer by being told by others what we are supposed to 
be like. Either what we are like, or what we should be like. 
It is very hard to survive as a person with all this pressure on 
us. 
It calls for heroism. 
We have to keep saying no that’s not quite the way it is. 
It is very hard to keep saying no and yes at the same time. 
NO to what's false and YES to the dialogue. There was a 
wonderful woman at Black Mountain College where | worked 
for several years. She was Viennese and she taught music. 
Her 
name was Johanna Jalowetz and she had an expression which | 
think should be taught in the schools as fundamental to life. 
She used to say it all the time, no-ja, no-ja, NO-JA. 
M. C. Richards 
The central images in the book are taken from the potter's 
craft: centering, and the ordeal by fire. But both are arche- 
typal and occur in other contexts as well. Centering is a term 
used by the Quakers for a feeling of flowing toward a common 
center in their meeting for worship. 
It is also an ancient 
Sanskrit term used in spiritual disciplines of the east. What 
it means, | think, is to feel the whole in every part. When 
you center clay on the potter's wheel, you take a lump of 
clay, and by moving it upwards into a cone and outwards 
into a plane, you create a condition of balance between the 
outside and the inside, so that when you touch the clay at 
a single point the whole mass is affected. Centering has 
nothing to do with a center as a place. 
It has to do with 
bringing the totality of the clay into an unwobbling pivot, 
the equilibrium distributed throughout in an even grain. 
The substance of the clay has to be brought to a condition 
of stillness at the same time that it is spinning, it has to be 
worked so that there is no difference in quality between 
the surface and the interior, 
a balance between the inner 
consistency and influences from without. So that when 
we stick our fingers into it to open it up into a vessel, the 
inside will be as firm and malleable as the outside, and will 
be able to create a space which will be a container. 
It is 
poetic and mysterious and yet very actual and concrete 
and messy and common clay. COMMON CLAY! WHAT'S 
THAT? 
M.C. Richards 
From: Penn State Papers 
in Art Education 
-_~ 
_ 
a, 
ry ett 
Bulk Film 
| 
pL 
Architects 
and Hot Water 
| suggest 
Superior Bulk Film Co. 
z 
442-450 N. Wells St. 
Chicago, III. 60610 
\ 
A reliable mail order service (& store) for 8mm 
& 16 mm film, processing, equipment for home 
processing labs, & most equipment & supplies for 
amateur filmmakers who desire control & versatility 
at low-cost. Their film & processing package deals are 
as cheap or cheaper than any I've seen, probably more 
reliable than most. Also have excellent specials fre- 
quently. Discontinued film stocks, spliced reels, etc.— 
= 
check it out! Good catalog available, newsheets rundown F 
specials, new stuff, changes, etc.—write to Superior. 
I'd 
be glad to organize a more coherent review if you‘re 
interested. This place /sn’t one. of these Jumbo-Junk 
Filmailer houses. 
| first got turned on to them by a 
recognized experimentalist, now teaching at state 
univeristy. 
Charrette Corporation of 2000 Massachusetts Avenue, 
_ ie 
Cambridge,Mass. 
w 
os 
Describes itself as “EVERY THING The Architect Needs For — 
Drafting Design, Presentation, & Model Making.” 
h CATALOG on request. From my experience they have the i 
finest quality, are reliable, good prices on all items, over- 
- re 
whelming volume of stuff in stock. They were set up about 
| 5 years ago to fill a need, bringing drafting and architectural — 
_ supplies and technology up-to-date. When you see thei 
+a 
A store you know they have done it. 
i 
; 
Landam Corporation, 2211 Broadway, NY, NY 10024 
makes and sells a hot water heater that plugs into the pipe 
| very simply, and heats your water as it runs out. There’s 
a limit to its total effective- 
ness, as far as total volume 
goes, but for a campsite, or 
house, or trailer living, it 
‘ 
does a grand job. It weighs 
less than two pounds, needs 
electricity, and costs about 
$35. 
‘a 
i 
Bruce Schmiechen 
Chicago, III. 
Afrasia 
T. H. Neel 
Cambridge, Mass. 
Afrasian Markets—Buyers Guide 
41 Hamam St. P. Box 325 Bombay 1, India 
One year’s subscription—8.00 postal order— 
This is one to check out—my memory is fragmented 
these days but | remembered it as a groovy source— 
everything from hemp to nuts—Beware, bad de/ivery 
from India! 
* 
The Catalog needs information for Canadian mutants— 
s 
P 
i.e. will the Co. mail goods to Canada, accept Canadian 
Lf | What’s a Tesla Motor? 
$, etc. We badly need a Canadian branch—source of 
i 
supplies within the country—for example—the Ashley 
stove comes from B.C. 
: 
Jack Wise 
Estepona, Malaga, Spain 
L 
| am told that one may get plans to build a Tesla Motor for $3 from 
Fan Industries, Box 7544 St. Paul Minn. 
ne 
A Tesla motor is supposedly super-efficient and can change directions 
almost instantly & lasts just about forever with no maintenance. 
I've. 
not seen One or read up on it myself & don't know how true these 
claims are, but perhaps you would like to investigate it. 
2 
Mal 
Office of my high reverence 
Malaclypse the Younger KSC 
OPOVIG 
High Priest POEE 
We’d-love to see a Catalog for Canadians. 
It won’t 
happen until some Canadian starts one. We can 
suggest to this entrepreneur that from our experience 
he’s got a hungry market waiting. 
Boat 
Jay Baldwin says these Boston Whalers are known as the 
best of the new small utility outboards. $595-$2045, 
Suitable for ocean use. 
Non-skid moccasin 
In the last issue of the Catalogue you listed some good moccasins 
and in the review it mentioned that the way to tell good moccasins 
— 
from bad is whether or not stitching is visible in the seam that joins 
: 
[| the upper portion of the moccasin from the lower. 
It also mentioned 
__ 
,, that those moccasins were sudden death on wet surfaces such as wood 
J Or smooth concrete. Fairchild Indiancraft, at 11750 Victory Blvd., 
ee 
b N. Hollywood, Calif., makes superb moccasins with beautiful invisible 
, 
A stitching, and they offer a nice solution to the sudden death problem oe 
4 in the form of optional, thin, textured, composite soles. | have hada 
: 
F pair of moccasins with these soles for more than a year now, and they 
are the finest things | have ever put on my feet. The soles are thin 
ae 
f enough to give you an acceptable ‘‘barefoot’’ feeling, and allow you to 
| be suitably aware of the ground beneath your feet, but are thick 
— 
a 
enough to allow walking or jumping about on sharp rocks such as those g 
native to most of the California coast. Although no moecasin is really 
— 
good for your feet during prolonged pavement-type walking, these are 
surely the best of the lot. 
: 
from: 
The Fisher-Pierce Co., Inc. 
1149 Hingham Street 
Rockland, Mass. 02370 
' Briefly, here are other relevant facts about the product: 
— Fairchild Indiancraft offers a basic model, 7’’ high, boot-type 
moccasin. The seams are impervious to all stress and weather, 
and there are no openings of any sort below the very top of the 
; 
moccasin. The leather lacing is made from the same leather as 
the moccasin. Buyer must sent in tracings of each foot, and 
specify rough-out or smooth-out. The man in the store suggests, 
and my experience tends to bear him out, that rough-out seems 
__ 
to be more water repellant than smooth-out. 
yee! 
— The standard model comes with a 2-3!’ piece of fringe down the — 
middle of the foot below. the lacing, which many people seem to 
prefer not to have. 
. 
— The:store will modify the basic design in any way that can be 
described coherently to them. The basic model cost about $22, 
including surface postage, when | bought mine, but recent 
ent 
prices should be checked. Higher moccasins cost a good deal 
__ 
more, as does the addition of special fringe, etc. 
‘a 
— On its wall, the store has letters from Alaska from customers 
who have used this footwear extensively in snow and ice. 
— The store will re-sole and repair their product at a reasonable 
fee. 
: 
Little Car 
Despite the hokey name the King Midget is a really fine 
runabout car. A one cylinder engine and 12 horsepower 
make for 60 miles to a gallon with an automatic trans- 
mission. Only one model is offered, a two seat conver- 
tible for $1,095. 
| operate mine for 75¢ a week in daily stop and go traffic. 
' 
—one warning, this car is not for expressway use, but its 
great to run down:to the local market. 
James J. Berryhill 
Atlanta, Ga. 
John Cooke 
San Francisco, CA 
available from: 
Midget Motors Corporation 
Athens, Ohio 45701 
Library-College 
<< 
Have you heard of the LIBRARY-COLLEGE movement? 
See book of same title edited by Louis Shores, Robert 
— 
Jordan, John Harvey. Drexel University Press, 1966. 
Also article LIBRARY -COLLEGE USA by Louis 
Shores in ALA BULLETIN, Dec. 1969, p. 1547. 
Stretch those ideas to pre-kindergartens and elemen- 
tary schools & we've got it made. Built-in crap 
detectors and truth-finders. 
a 
Bill Hinchliff 
Washington, DC 
