Death, Old Friend 
“You sure that’s true?” 
This is not yet a section proper, but an invitation to a 
section. 
The whole system of human life has been 
appreciated only in its ascendant aspects lately. We 
have entire industries—medicine, warfare—devoted to 
death-prevention, and a kind of pathological secrecy has 
surrounded the event of dying. 
Dick Alpert, several years ago, proposed a Center for Birth’ 
and Dying. A place where, if you were going to die or 
wanted to die, you go and do it in style, perhaps even 
grace. 
There would be whatever religious, pharmaceu- 
tical, medical aid you wanted. 
(If LSD has been proven 
to ease the departure of terminal cancer patients, why 
is it not in general use? What else enhances the exper- 
ience of death?) The Center is also a place for natural 
childbirth, family supported, so that arrival and departure 
in this world are not estranged. 
Now that we are getting more and more home-made births 
going on, | wonder if home-made dying and burial is 
growing as well. We invite photographs and accounts of 
down-home birth and death for publication. Since there’s 
legal weirdness around these subjects, we will not publish 
or reveal names, sources, locations unless requested to. 
We will publish whatever increases familiarity with these 
events closest to the heart of human life. 
To Gary Snyder 
I'm looking to do a page eventually of photographs of homemade 
births and homemade burial (and homemade dying). Know of 
any? The legal and media restrictions around mortality are truly 
mad... 
From Gary Snyder 
Home made birth is important: we need the laws changed 
back to allow (licensed if need be) midwives to function. 
And do-it-yrself also. As for death, that /S maddening. 
Shd be no coffins, etc.—simple earth burial & plant a tree. 
| don’t have any photographs. 
To Lenny Bruce 
About ten years ago when | was into psychology stuff, | 
bumped into a guy | knew from high school days. He was 
an undertaker in Boston and he asked me if | knew anything 
about suicide. 
“Well like what?” | said, in that clinical noncommittal voice 
| had mastered. 
“Cause everytime we get a suicide, it’s the weirdest thing 
but they always got this grin on their faces. No matter how 
they go: hanging, gas or whatever, they always got this 
certain grin” 
34 
“No shit, we even got a name for it in the trade it’s called 
‘THE SHIT-EATIN GRIN’ and every one of the fuckers 
gatats” 
“What do you do about it? Like how come nobody but 
undertakers knows about it?”’ 
“Are you kiddin? We couldn’t talk about a thing like that, 
not in our position. We even have to change the expressions 
on their face. You know, make em look more serious. 
They fight like hell even if they’re dead. We have to use 
special needles to relax their face muscles and finally we 
get em lookin serious enough for the funeral. 
| mean you 
just could never bury a guy with a shit-eatin grin, no sir.” 
This story is for you, Lenny, from all the 
Yippies 
“Dedication to Lenny Bruce” 
from Abbie Hoffman's Woodstock Nation. 
$2.95 from Random House, Inc., 201 E. 50th 
Street, New York, N. Y. 10022. Reprinted 
without permission. 
BEQUEATHAL OF BODIES OF YOUNG PEOPLE 
FOR RADIATION RESEARCH 
There is important need for bodies of disease-free young adults (who 
have been killed in accidents) to permit the study of radiation normally 
present at various ages. 
Recent reports of the International Commission of Radiological Pro- 
tection indicate urgent need for broader research on internal radiation by 
age groups. The Atomic Energy Commission is prepared to make such 
studies in collaboration with various medical schools throughout the coun- 
try. Little has been done thus far due to lack of suitable bodies. 
Students and other idealistic young people are encouraged to get their 
parents or spouses to sign a legal release that will permit them to bequeath 
their bodies (in case of accidental death) to radiation research. It is essen- 
tial that suitable papers be carried, explaining the bequeathal, forbidding 
the embalming of the body and giving instructions for its transportation. 
Bodies are subsequently returned for burial if desired, or are cremated 
and the ashes disposed of as specified by the family. 
’ 
_ An inquiry directed to the Falconer Foundation, 66 West 87th Street, 
New York 10024 (212-877-7586), will bring the necessary information 
and papers. 
From A Manual of Simple Burial, Ernest Morgan, $1 from The 
Celo Press, Arthur Morgan School, Box 79, Route 5, Burnsville, 
North Carolina 28714 
Also available from Celo Press (above) “Certificate for 
Bequeathing Body” (if you want your body to be used 
for medical purposes) 4 for 25¢; and “Putting Your House 
in Order” (a form for all the information that survivors 
need—how not to be a dead nuisance) 40¢ per copy, 
3 for $7. 
The death of Osceola, the Seminole 
January 30, 1838 
About half 
an hour before he died, he seemed to _ 
be sensible that he was dying; and although he 
could not speak, he signified by signs that he wished 
me to send for the chiefs and for the officers 
of th 
post, whom I called in. He made signs to his wives 
(of whom he had two, and also two fine little chil- 
dren by his side), to go and bring his full dress, 
which he wore in time of war; which having been — 
brought in, he rose up in his bed, which was on the 
floor, and put on his shirt, his leggings and moc-— 
casins—girded on his war-belt, his bullet-pouch, 
—__ 
and powder-horn, and laid his knife by the side of — 
him on the floor. He then called for his red paint, — 
and his looking-glass, which was held before him, 
when he deliberately painted on half of his face, h 
neck and his throat<his wrists—the backs of — 
hands, and the handle of his knife, red with ver- 
million; a custom practised when the irrevocable 
— 
oath of war and destruction is taken. His knife he 
then placed in its sheath, under his belt; and he ~ 
carefully arranged his turban on his head, and 
his three ostrich plumes that he was in the habit 
_ 
of wearing in it. Being thus prepared in full dres. 
he lay down a few minutes to recover strength s 
ficient, when he rose up as before, and with mos 
benignant and pleasing smiles, extended his hand 
me.and to all of the officers and chiefs that were 
— 
around him; and shook hands with us all in dead 
— 
silence; and also with his wives and his little chil 
ren; he made a signal for them to lower him dow 
upon his bed, which was done, and he then slowi 
drew from his war-belt, his scalping-knife, which 
} 
firmly grasped in his right hand, laying it across 
tne 
other, on his breast, and in a moment smiled aw. 
his last breath, without a struggle ora groan. 
ig 
; 
Catlin, The North American Indians, 
Vo. Il, p. 251n. 
= =e 
The Indian in America’s Past, 
Jack D. Forbes, $1.95 from Prentice- 
Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 07632 
FOR PHOTOS, A POLAROID BIG SWINGER IS 
THE CHEAPEST AND HANDIEST. 
