Free some land, and not just a little 
Get everybody who’s interested to contribute a dollar and 
we’ll buy a huge piece of land and make it a park. Nota 
national park, but a Peoples Park, and we'll have a big 
Earthwarming to greet the place and thank the place and 
start getting acquainted with ecological responsibility. 
(Send your dollar to Earth Peoples Park, P.O. Box 313, 
1230 Grant Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94133.) 
You've had that idea too, right? And here it is, under way. 
The power of the idea is that everyone has had a piece of 
it by themselves. 
The threads that mingle in this particular manifestation 
practically define a people. The Earth Peoples Park idea 
originated largely at the Sympowowsium organized by 
Tom Law in New Mexico last November, (Tom Law— 
his thread goes back through Hog Farm, whose bus was 
begat by Kesey’s bus, whose motion came out of 
Kerouac’s perception of Neal Cassady’s. Then there’s 
Tom Law’s yogi thread, which disappears immediately 
into India.) The sympowowsium brought together 
organizers and promoters of festival events, particularly 
rock music events. 
(That thread came jubilantly 
direct from Woodstock, Monterey Pop Festival, and 
on back far and wide through the various bands into 
the changes and judgments of all us record buyers.) 
The specific land fantasy owed much of its confidence 
to Libre and back through Libre to Drop City and to 
the land hunger of New York artists. The Peoples Park 
concept, of course, arose from the Berkeley saga of 
that name, and back through the whole Berkeley story- 
book. The commitment to ecological responsibility 
has grass roots everywhere, though clearly much is 
owed to Gary Snyder (Alan Watts, Zen Buddhism). 
Well, draw your own genealogy of the event; you're 
_ in there several-times over. 
| was sucked into the scheme by Wavey Gravy (of 
Hugh Romney fame) and Milan Melvin, who invited 
some of us to attend a meeting at the Committee 
Theater in San Francisco, Saturday-Sunday, Dec. 
20-21, 10 am-6 pm. Roy Sebern and | went. 
Roy said it looked to him like a meeting of businessmen 
gathered to discuss business. 
| felt | was at some 
peculiar purposeful party with a lot of theater people. 
(There’s Cass Elliot, there’s Leigh French, there’s 
Paul Krassner, there’s David Crosby, there’s Mimi 
(Farina) Melvin. ...) At the same time it was 
something surprisingly solid. People who had 
cooked at Woodstock, put up an overnight sound 
stage at Altamont, survived Liferaft Earth, doctored 
with the Hog Farm, built domes and tilled ground at 
innumerable communes, dodged tear gas cannisters, 
smoked dope, been busted (there’s Ken Kesey), 
learned some yoga, fretted about their food, travelled 
a lot and knew one another pretty well by now. 
It 
was no comprehensive gathering, but a good rep- 
resentative one for this particular subculture (Woodstock 
Nation?) 
A number of practical things were done periodically to bring 
the group of 100 or so together: breathing exercises, every- 
body take hands and make the sound that comes, vege- 
tarian lunch together, people stand up who have something 
to say and they start their remarks with who they are and 
what they’re here for. The exhausing disputes also served 
finally as coherers because the idea and the arguers 
survived them together. 
The organizers made one master stroke to surmount the 
inevitable hassles. They prepared in advance a well-written 
beautifully illustrated document spelling out the idea. 
The sheer materiality of this document invariably helped 
the idea prevail against vague challenges. 
- 
The organizers also made one large mistake (a fine, edu- 
cational one). By arranging for two days of meetings, 
they built in anticlimax and extra dispute. The high 
feeling and faith built on Saturday had nowhere to go 
but down on Sunday when new arrivals raised the same 
arguments that had been gone through and settled the 
first day. It was a 24-hour generation gap, with the 
2-day guys uneasily defending the policies of the past 
against the raucous impatient new-comers. 
The major issues were two, with a lurky third behind 
them: 
1) Land Fantasy vs. the Movement. 2) Ecology 
vs. Festival. 
[and 3) the use of common]. 
The Movement was represented by one black guy, who 
stood, gave his credentials, and said how he thought 
that the Earth Park idea was nice, but it was running 
away from the real problems of hunger and oppression; 
the only people it would be good for was a rather 
privileged few. His statement was followed by an awkward 
series of heartfelt replies asserting that No, no, the Move- 
ment was part of it, the Park would be for anybody, and 
it would explore alternative modes of land use which 
could well lead to a better-fed-relation of people and 
land. The schism grew. 
i 
Paul Krassner stood up. Instead of emphasizing the 
differences of the Longhaired and Black tribes, which 
was the engine of the dispute, he told anecdotes of his 
28 
adventures on the borders between the two territories 
such as a mutual acid trip with a leading Head and a 
prominent Black militant. The militant gave him reason 
to believe that picking up the gun for protection of others 
was a responsible act. And the Head equally convinced 
him that ‘It’s bad karma to even have a gun’’ Then 
Krassner unleashed his band-aid: 
‘’The sense of respon- 
sibility. 
That’s the bridge. People are responsible for 
each other.” 
Milan Melvin said that a lot of things need doing. “If we 
can pull off one project, then we can pull off any project.” 
The Movement issue did not come up seriously again, but 
Ecology was a constant hassle throughout the weekend. 
The focal vocal conservative was Keith Lampe, former 
Yippie and present operator of an ecological wire-service 
called Earth Read Out. He and others insisted that a 
festival on the land next summer would not warm the land 
but ruin it. Furthermore, hot use of media was unecological. 
And doing just one Park was a national rather than land- 
related appraoch; there should be lots of regional Parks 
instead. As organized, the Earth Peoples Park looked like 
a giant rip-off of land. 
The organizers replied that purchase of the land would be 
accompanied by a thorough ecological study and the basic 
guidelines for use of the land would be ecological ones. 
But the argument kept simmering and came up fiercer 
than ever on Sunday when votes approving the basic 
plan had already been made and the meeting was 
supposedly going into operational matters. 
Voices were getting strident when Wavey Gravy stood 
up and waded into the rift with a dazzling tongue 
dance extolling the readiness of people to be careful 
of land. 
It was a sky-blue rap, more rapid and dense 
than the mind could follow, quick-song of tumbling 
images, ending ‘‘It ain’t gonna be popcorn and chewing 
gum. 
It’s gonna be a consecration of the land. Maybe 
we're gonna play softball, but people will slide gently 
into home.” 
Slide gently into home. During lunch several people asked 
me where | was on the ecology issue. | said that | loved 
the Park idea, that | studied ecology in the late fifties 
and as near as | could tell there are hardly any ecologists 
yet, at least of the kind we can use. Either they are 
academic and remote, or fine naturalists committed 
strictly to observation, or romantics still talking as if 
Man and Nature were distinct, only now it’s Nature 
who's good and Man who’s evil. The kind of ecologists 
we need, | said, can best come out of scenes like Earth 
Peoples Park, where young guys can make real mistakes 
with real land in undiluted responsibility for the conse- 
quences, good or bad. 
The issue which was not raised at the meeting, which will 
surely-be met on the land, is the toughest of all: the use 
of common. Garret Hardin calls it ‘““The Tragedy of the 
Commons” in Population, Evolution & Birth Control— 
The tragedy of the commons develops in this way. Picture a pasture 
open to all. It is to be expected that each herdsman will try to 
keep as many cattle as possible on the commons. Such an arrange- 
ment may work reasonably satisfactorily for centuries because 
tribal wars, poaching, and disease keep the numbers of both man 
and beast well below the “‘carrying capacity’’ of the land. Finally, 
however, comes the day of reckoning, i.e., the day when the long 
desired social stability becomes a reality. At this point, the 
inherent logic of the commons remorselessly generates tragedy. 
As a rational being each herdsman seeks to maximize his gain. 
Explicitly or implicitly, more or less consciously, he asks: ‘What 
is the utility to me of adding one more animal to my herd?” 
This utility has two components: 
1. A positive component, which is a function of the increment 
of one animal. Since the herdsman receives all the proceeds 
from the sale of the additional animal, the positive utility is 
nearly +1. 
2. A negative component, which is a function of the additional 
overgrazing created by one more animal. But since the effects 
of overgrazing are shared by all the herdsmen, the negative 
utility for any particular decision-making herdsman is only a 
fraction of -1. 
Adding together the component partial utilities, the rational 
herdsman concludes that the only sensible course for him to 
pursue is to add another animal to his herd. And another; and 
another... But this is the conclusion reached by each and 
every rational herdsman sharing a commons. Therein is the 
tragedy. Each man is locked in to a system that compels him 
to increase his herd without limit—in a world that is limited. 
Ruin is the destination toward which all men rush, each pursuing 
his own best interest in a society that believes in the freedom of 
the commons. Freedom in a commons brings ruin to all. 
—Garrett Hardin, Population, Evolution, and 
Birth Control, $2.95 from W. H. Freeman & Co. 
660 Market St., San Francisco, CA 94104 
It brought ruin to the Haight-Ashbury and to innumerable 
hopeful communes; it is the single largest threat to Earth 
Peoples Park (and to Earth). 
The nub is self-interest. 
| learned from student negotiators 
at San Francisco State that self-interest is everywhere 
(especially in those who deny it), it’s real, and it’s all right. 
It's life wanting to live. You can design your solutions 
through it. 
Earth Peoples Park can be a lab, a piece of the Earth standing 
for the whole of it. Can we design a way to use the Park 
without killing the Park? 
- try-to-win-we-both-lose matrix game. The solution is 
There are a few avenues that look promising. (American 
. 
Indian procedures that worked in low population density 
are probably unworkable now). One avenue is vaguely 
recognizable as ‘‘enlightened self-interest’, subsuming 
self-interest to Self-interest. (Hey, why have mystics been 
so often irresponsible in their handling of worldly affairs?) 
This may be represented in mathematics by the recent 
solution to Prisoner’s Dilemma—an old you-try-to-win-l- 
meta-game strategy. 
[Would somebody who knows about 
this stuff write in some detail what application Prisoner's 
¥ 
Dilemma has to the Park? How about non-zero-sum games?] 
Maybe the technique is identification. You're you, and 
~ 
at the same time you’re the Park, and the Earth, now act 
— 
accordingly. 
We could poke around in theory endlessly. The beauty of 
Earh Peoples Park is the requirement of making ideas 
work on the /and. “Instead of going through our lives with —~ 
our teeth gritted,” said one guy at the meeting, ‘‘we can try | 
for an alternative.” 
(Send your dollar to Earth Peoples Park, P.O. Box 313, 
1230 Grant Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94133), 
: 
Within and around the earth, within and around 
the hills, within and around the mountains, 
— 
your authority returns to you. 
; 
A Tewa Prayer 
The Tewa World, Alfonso Ortiz, $8.00, from University of 
__ 
Chicago Press, 11030 South Langley Avenue, Chicago, II]. 60628 
_ 
Flash, 21 Jan 1970: word has just come from New 
Mexico that a meeting between Peoples Park organizers 
and the Governor of New Mexico (Gov. Cargo) went 
extremely well. Cargo and his staff are interested in 
the idea and are looking for ways to help it happen in 
New Mexico. Several possible sites have been found and. 
are being looked into. 
: 
2 
Voices © :
Ecology and flamboyance are contradictory. 
% 2 
It’s urban technique. You'll have bad relations 
4 
with your country neighbors. 
a 
What's the difference between up front and 
flamboyant? 
= 
+ 
Everything should stay in loc
terms rather than national ter 
lf you want to talk, stand up. 
7 
For me to become ec 
There are a million problems and million mistakes | know everything that ri
that can happen on that land. 
It’s an experiment. 
my 
re 
If it doesn’t work out, fuck it. That community 
ty 
is going to have to work it out for itself. We can’t 
tell them now what to do. 
‘- 
We're all test 1
There'll be no peace, brother. That is a fact. 
* 
There's been a tremendous amount of eloquence 
here. And | think we should stop. 
Recess mi 2: ain 
the only thing we're 
_ I'm a double Virgo, & I’m for organization. 
We are the media. 
et 
The only thing I’ve heard from the ecology people | 
recognize in the room is fear. 
| think it’s up to us to solve the kind of problems 
of Woodstock and Altamont. 
| don’t think there’s 
any problem that’s insoluble. 
> 
