Island Fantasy, in depth 
| was surprised and pleasid to hear that you had printed my letter of 
June 20, 1969, in the ‘Supplement.’ 
It was the first time any of my 
writeing had appeared in print and | was quite pleased and even a 
little flattered. Some of the letters of enquiry which | have recieved 
as a result of this printing are very interesting, however, it is apparent 
to me that most, if not evryone, who has written were not aware 
that | am a prisoner of the state in San Quentin Prison. Asa result 
} am somewhat limited in what | can do to help them or even privide 
them with information. 
Some of the enquiries | have recieved are very interesting though and 
show considerable interest in some of the things and places which 
| mentioned. At the forefront of this interest has been the Queen 
Charlotte Island group which | mentioned and which lie off the 
West coast of Canada about 70 miles. They are a part of the 
Province of British Columbia and make up the uppermost Canadian 
island group before you run into South Eastern Alaska. Now | have 
very little research material available to me here at the prison which 
concerns this area but perhaps from memory | can answer a few of 
the many questions which have been directed to.me concerning this 
paradise of the northwest. 
When in Canada in 1965 as a fugative, | was looking for a remote 
place where | could find a new home and be reasonably secure 
from discovery. 
| spent many long hours in liburaries, musiems, 
_archives, and in university laboratories and studies seeking out 
evry secret and hidin area in Canada where a man could go, either 
alone or with others, and live with reasonable ease, far from the 
intrigues of our cities and socieity in general. After nearly five 
months of looking and having to evade the Mounties on at least 
one occasion, | finally dicided that the Queen Charlotte Islands 
(on really old maps they appear as the ‘Washington Islands’) 
‘would be my best bet. 
Having found a place to go it was necessary to determine just 
how to get there as this area has only limited contact with 
the outside world. Allbeit this contact is on a regular basis and 
can be generally depended upon. 
| found that there is a regular 
steamer service out of Vancouver which lands at Skidgate City 
on Graham (the NOrth Island of the group) about once evry 
week. There is also the inland passage shipping route from 
Vancouver to Prince Rupert which will take you there in class 
for avery high fare. From Prince Rupert it is then only 70 
miles to Charlotte City which is also on Graham and from which 
it is reasonably easy to get a fishing boat to give you passage 
across the Hecate Strait. There is also a sea plane service 
which lands at both Skidgate and Masset and because of the traveling 
time by other means this may well be the most economical way to 
travel from Vancouver to the islands. You may also drive the Alaskan 
highway and take the Prince Rupert cutoff, although it is a bit of a 
rough road and you must be able to make your own repairs in the event 
of a breakdown. 
Asa 
final thought you could possibly hitch a ride 
as a paying passenger or even a workalong on one of the many fishing 
trawlers heading north out of Vancouver. To my knowledge there is no 
direct train or bus service to Prince Rupert. 
A few of the pertinant details of this island group which | remember will 
now follow in the remaining body of this letter as will a somewhat 
incomplete bibliography which the reader may find to be helpfull. 
The Queen Charlotte Islands have a land area of about 4,000 square 
miles and are occupied by about 3,000 people, mostly Haids indians. 
There are two high schools that | can remember, one at Skidgate 
and one at Masset. There is a paved highway of about 68 miles in 
length between these two towns and nomerous logging roads. 
Fishing and lumbering operations are the best sources of acash 
income and wages are good in both fields. Most of the approximately 
500 white resedents are located at Skidgate and this is the most 
important town. There is a R.C.M.P. Station at Sandspith and to the 
best of my knowledge this is the only law enforcement agency in the 
area. The only hotel | am aware of is at Skidgate and most other 
general services originate out of this town. 
The Queen Charlottes have a long and interesting history which is 
still being made. They were and still are occupied by the Haida 
indians who developed what is probably one of the most successful 
hunting, fishing, and traiding socieities in N. America. According 
to old records it was possible for these people to gather and prepare 
for storage in three months, enough food to feed the entire community 
in high style for the remainder of the year. This was so back in the 
1800's and it is still true today despite the encroachments of 
“civilization.” 
There is available from the National Geodetic Survey and Mining 
Office in Ottowa a set of 44 topographical maps which literally 
cover evry inch of the island group. Evry spring, river, creek, lake, 
_ore deposit etc. is covered in marvelous detail as are all of the 
man made features in the area. This set of maps cost $22 but is a 
must for anyone interested in going to the area for more than just 
a superficial visit. The many navagational charts of the area, also 
available from the National Geodetic Survey and Mining Office, are 
a worthwhile investment and a must for the boat owner. 
| am of the opinion that the Charlottes, as a wilderness area still 
undeveloped, have far more to offer those individuals who are of 
an adventurous nature than any other area | know of, Providing 
of course that you are willing to adapt yourself to the special 
features of this island paradise and not just try to change it to suit 
yourself. 
It does rain a lot and for those who like a completely dry 
climate, all | can say is, stay home! 
It is a type of precipitation 
which is easily endured and may be loved by many, especially 
some asthmatics. Don’t let the weather discourage you, however, 
for it seldom is raining hard enough to need the usual rain gear and 
a good wool shirt will shed most of what falls. 
oe to 
x 
: 
NS 
ete 
LiLLrooer 
Qahes 
Tae 
a 
Rupry 
7 
\ 
Ss 
= 
x 2 
: 
Le IN 
There are numerous wilderness locations for building community 
settlements, cooperatives, or communes which are unmatched for 
beauty anyplace and which may be had for such a low price as to 
seem unbelieveable. There is an abandoned whailing station on 
Naden Harbor, a six mile long natural harbour on Masset, which 
would make an excellent site for a commune with room to grow 
to about 2,000 people and no one would be crowded. No one lives 
on Naden harbor at this writing and it is 30 miles by boat to Masset. 
The nearest neighbours are on a small island named Langara 1. about 
20 miles north and west. 
| have forgotten just how many indians 
live there but they occupy a historic village site and in my opinion 
would be good neighbours. There are fresh water springs and creeks 
in this area which feed into the Harbour. There is also ample grazing 
pasture and brush for a good size goat and sheep herd and a part of 
the area is also a wildlife sanctuary for migratory water foul. 
The harbour is deep enough for ships with up to a 30 foot draft and 
is calm and easily navagable by small boats. This harbor is remote 
and beautiful and is my personal choice of a place to live away from 
the troubles of the world but, a good boat is a must and this may not 
be an easy item for an individual to acquire without considerable funds. 
For’a community it would probably be easy enough to get one of the 
canneries to finance a boat for you and even train your crew. Some of 
the best halibut fishing in the world is just outside of Naden Harbour 
and you would be able to pay off the boat in no time. Gardening 
is also possible on land cleared of brush and treas near the old 
whailing station which is located on the west shore of the harbor on 
the estuary of a small salmon stream midway between the mouth and 
the head of the harbour. Beekeeping, poultry, etc are also good 
possabilities here. 
—— TFs. 
StS vicars 
A much easier place to locate a settlement on and much nearer to 
community services, including electricity, is on the south shore of 
Masset Inlet which is also on Graham |., about 26 miles east of Naden 
Harbor. This sound is much larger than Naden Harbor and much 
different. 
It is bottle shaped with a % mile wide channel leading 
down from the North to its inland body of water. It is quite a 
beautiful place and lies about midway between Skidgate and 
Charlotte City. The South shore has been cleared of trees and 
there is a large pasture like area which was previously used as 
a recreation area for one of the large lumbering companies. There 
are also some buildings here which were not priviously being used 
(| don’t know their present status) which belonged to the forementioned 
lumber company. The prevailing attitude in the North West has 
been that it is better to have your buildings occupied by “‘anyone”’ 
rather than stand vacant and it might be possible for a group to buy 
or lease this whole area for a pittance. The natural resources of this 
area are extensive and you have access to the main highway by a 
good road. From the Inlet it is just a short drive to town. There 
are giant crabs to be had in the sound_along with the usual fishes etc. 
There is also a herd of wild cattle in the area should you prefer 
beef and elk, a herd of about 600, exists just to the west of the Inlet. 
The local limit on deer is one per day per person evry day of the year 
and you usually need go no further than the nearest beach to find 
several. 
Otter and bears will sometimes be encountered on occasion and tend 
to be, along with raccoona, about the worst nusences to be encountered 
through out the entire area of the island group. Aside from brown 
and black bear there are no major preditors on any of the islands so 
the woods remain relatively safe for livestock. Some poultry and 
honey bees will fall prey to skunks, however and this is to be expected. 
Hives must also be protected from the bears. Any surplus of either 
products will find a ready market in town or the lumber camps at 
the highest possible prices. 
: 
Back in the 1930's a group of about 200 Russian emigrant farmers 
settled on the east shore of Graham. They cleared farms out of the 
brush land and bush. A few years later they abandoned these farms 
and mooved to the mainland and closer to “civilization.” -There is 
today only one farm left on Graham and this in spite of the reputation 
of the area for producing 10 tons of potatoes to the acre: The abandon 
farm sites can now be bought for almost nothing and reclaimed for 
the cost of your own labour. As | recall they average from 40 to 60 
acres in size and could be bought for about $5.00 an acre or less. 
There may even be some homesteading sites left to be filed upon 
if you are interested. The major drawback of this area is the lack 
of small harbors where boats can dock. This means that boats must 
be pulled completely out of the water when not in use lest the 
choppy seas of the strait beat them to pieces. 
- be started in the most primitave fashon and still become just as 
Peres 
To the south of Graham I., just off the coast of the long, mountainous, — 
south island there lies a large island of about 25 square miles which 
has some unique characteritstics and on which a commune organized 
as a resort operation might find considerable success. 
| think the 
— 
name is Louise Island. This island which is covered mostly with ~ 
forest has a number of mineral hot springs which feed several 
_ 
smal! lakes and there are also tar pits and asphalt deposits tobe 
—— 
found as well. Game is also abundant and some minerals may be 
found. 
It is only a short boat ride from Skidgate to the island and 
its possabilities are only limited by the resources and imagination 
of its colonizers. 
re 
There are numerous other possible location for settlements through- 
- 
out the entire group of islands but | will have to leave it to those who 
are in need of a place to settle to find them. 
| do not even have a 
small map of the area to reffer to for further details so perhaps you 
can appreciate my predicament. For those who want to remain in- 
the U.S. though | will suggest a look at the town of Craig on Prince 
_ 
Edward Island in S.E. Alaska. There exists also an infinite number of 
sites where individual dwellings could be built from native materials 
at almost no cost other than your time and labour. 
If you just squatt ~ 
upon a piece of land in this area it is quite unlikely that anyone will 
bother you unless you just plain over do it and get into evryones way, 
and generally make anunwelcome nusence of yourself, 
: 
It is not difficult to live from the land in thes paradice as | have 
hae 
already stated. There is also, however, work to be had in the 
i 
island industries paying about $30C per day. For group investments 
you might get a Japanese firm to finance a fish storage locker or 
; 
cannery operation for you and home crafts are a definite possability. 
A ready market also exists for any surpluses from your gardens. 
y 
A marvelous thought occured to me while answering a letter from 
— 
another reader concerning the Charlottes and | will try to pass iton 
j 
to those of you who may be interested. As | have already mentioned, 
the indians of this area had a highly developed culture at a very 
posh 
early date, having to work only three months of the year to earn 
their substinance from the land and sea. Inasmuch as these indians 
lived in large community dwellings which were erected with the 
resources of the occupants perhaps they have already laid the best 
foundation plans for establishing communes, cooperatives, or 
communities for this area. When the indians built one of these 
community houses evryone who was to live inside contributed 
; 
lumber for its erection, but they retained ownership of this lumber 
and should they move or be thrown out could take it with them. 
These people were both capitalisticly oriented and socially concious. 
_ They worked individually and together depending upon the nature — ‘= 
of the project and property rights were a sacred matter to for 
both individuals and the whole tribe. This is still true. 
Inside the. — 
houses were partitioned off yvith each family having a room or 
: 
area with the central part of the house being used for cooking. 
A modern version of this same thing would work quite well for. 
the initial structure for a group attempting to establish itself in 
the area and later individual homes on the same lines and pattern 
could be built. An interesting psychological point worth noting 
here is that in the indian meathod of ownership no one would 
want 
to see a portion of the roof or walls belonging to a fellow 
tribesman removed and this no dowbt contributed considerably 
to the spirit of community cooperation and individual consideration. 
It was simply to evryones advantage to preserve harmony within: 
the house lest it be literally torn apart by its owners and rebuilt 
someplace else by the divergent factions. A firend of mine named 
4 
Bill Holm who can be reached through the University of Washington 
Press, Seattle, Washington, built one of these indian houses with __ 
i 
volunteer labour and milled lumber in the San Juan Islands of 
; 
Puget Sound for a cost of about $3,000. This house was about 
35’ x 70’ as | remember but they are sometimes much larger and “i 
could be smaller if desired. 
It sits on land belonging to aprivate camp 
and is quite well done and | think that anyone who is interested could — 
get further details from him or the University of Washington Publi- 
ees 
* 
cations on thbe subject. Another similar house was built by Mr. Mungo 
—
Martin at Thunderbird Park in Victoria, B.C., and photographs and 
“ 
details are available from the park curio shop. 
You can also 
: 
collect $70C a month in Social Assistance from the Government for 
evryone in the community if they don’t have jobs or just won't work. 
My thought for this proposed commune or community projectisa 
4 
little different from the motovation behind the two houses! just 
i 
mentioned. A family, family group, or larger unit of individuals comin: 
together in the Charlottes for this project would be able to accompli 
the house and housing project with little more than an ‘‘Alaskan saw 
mill’ chain saw, a couple of adzes, and the other and more usual _ 
tools of carpentry. For those who don’t know, an Alaskan sawmill 
is a two man chain saw which is generally operated by three men. You 
walk it down the length of a squared |og and a roller device determines — 
the thickness of the board or slab to be cut. These boards should 
be 
adzed smooth for painting when used on the front or inside of the 
house but the sides may be left rough. As you can see a house could it 
modern as you like. These large houses will shelter quite a 
few people in the begenning and as individual families grow and 
require more room the community can contribute its efforts to 
build each family the basic framework for a house and leave ittow 
= 
the occupants to decorate and improve upon it to suit themselves. 
Between pages 288 and 289 on Plate XIII in ‘‘Primitave Art’ “bye 
ae 
Franz Boaz, Dover Publications, Inc., N.Y., 1955, thereisa 
photograph of the framework of one of these great houses. Further — 
details may also be had from the publications of the Musium of the — 
American Indian, N.Y. City, The Denver Art Musiem, 1300 Logan — 
Street, Denver, Colorado, Washington State Musiem, Seattle, ~~ 
Washington, the Chicago Musiem of Natural History, and the 
— 
Smithstonian Institute, Washington, D.C. There are other U.S. ~ 
sources but these will do for a start. 
If you are in Canadathe 
musiems in Vancouver, Victoria and Ottowa will be most helpfull 
and have some excellent material. 
-: 
When you research and study these houses don’t make the mistake 
of stopping there. Examine the lives and culture of the people as. 
well. They have already set a splended example in developing a 
completely unique culture and a mode of living much of which is we 
worth doing again in this modern day. A word of warning is also due 
for the cultural explorers among you. The Haida are a proud people, 
jelous of their heritage. Learn their customs before you approach © 
them and do not be presumptious or paternalistic. Most of them 
exceptionally good livings from the sea and probably don’t need any 
thing you have to offer. Don’t use old totems and designs of the area © 
without getting permission of the family who owns that design first. 
They may be flattered by your request and give you the free or limit 
use of the design; they may refuse absolutely to let you use it or; off 
to sell it to you. In each case it is quite according to their traditions 
and their wishes should be respected at all cost. 
ih 
‘ 
The art of the Haida, like evrything else about them is unique and 
worthy of your interest and use. 
| hasten to reffer the reader to the 
forementioned book, “Primitave Art,’ and also to ‘Northwest Co 
Indian Art; An analysis of Form,” by Bill Holm, University of 
Washington Press, Seattle, Washington, 1965, 1967, $7.50. There’ 
is no finer study into the form and style of this art and | highly 
reccommend it to any artist for further study. 
ft 
