ples Park 
» 
meeting 
nat 
| hope this doesn’t become is a business. 
we get a million and try to invest it in four 
|p festivals to double the money, we wind up 
rging $4 at the door, which is what we're 
king to avoid. 
Everybody is looking for an idea to take ahold of. 
Which is why | think we should do this in a grand 
flamboyant way. What | want to do is get a big 
| 
aware | have to 
and T-shirts & yo-yos. And go around with a 
my system. 
— 
shiny bus like the Freedom Train used to take 
| 5 
; 
around the Declaration of Independence. Take 
| ae 
around a carnival. 
7 
j 
We are facing a problem on a planet level—the 
ae 
survival of life of any kind on this planet in the 
future. 
: 
| st $10,000 tospurchase 
idea, & so are the bands. 
' 
i) 
} 
4 ce this hits the media, the price of land is gonna 
Jouble. 
e, no less than 40 persons 
engine. Like, only buses. 
the increase. 
policeman, except the policeman 
This is not reality yet. 
mae 
shiny shuck, which is the truth. You know, posters 
Get across the idea that you're trying to get food 
to everybody. That'll click with everybody. 
The Document 
This meeting was called for the purpose of gathering a forum. There 
are no foregone conclusions and there are no axes to grind except, 
perhaps, that Life is Sacred. Each of us either does, or would like to 
share a dream. Earth Peoples Park can be the dream—a focal point 
and a hope. 
Its reality is the business of this forum. 
Everyone who is here brings specific knowledge of their part of the 
world and of their particular area of involvement in it. For this 
forum to serve us, and perhaps many others, it is essential that we 
all speak our minds fully and give each other access to both our 
knowledge and opinion. 
If we're going to learn, we will listen with 
as much care as we give to speaking. 
Earth Peoples Park is obviously not just a unique festival concept— 
-it is an attempt to make a beachhead for a new order of civilization. 
Or, if not new, then more an attempt to plant the word “‘civilized”’ 
back in the word civilization; perhaps to unearth it. 
Each of us is aware of the crisis we all share. The entire planet and 
specifically the consuming, wasting, worrying population of the 
United States, is freaking and sinking into a time of turbulence 
that makes the real need for survival as increasingly important as 
it continues to appear less likely. The truth of progress reports 
tell their own story: 
Increasing poisoning and pollution of air, 
water, soil and food; increasing population growth and decreasing 
resources to support it. 
Just as the need for joint, cooperative efforts increase, so do social 
divisions widen and subsequent fear and violence increase. This is. 
once again producing the classic counterbalancing growth of violent 
social revolution. 
The picture is agonizing, and the storm of change threatens anyone 
who would plant a fresh seed in its midst. Then again, it might be 
the best time. At the outset of this gathering, it would seem unwise 
to assume that Earth Peoples Park must be attempted, and equally 
unwise to say it’s impossible. 
Woodstock was a moment in history. Earth Peoples Park can be the 
foothold for the cultural and ecological development of that 
moment, a permanent home for those of us concerned with living 
and growth, 
Earth Peoples Park grew from an idea which took many forms in 
many places simultaneously. 
Essentially it was the idea of using 
the fantastic power and profits of rock music to free a piece of 
the planet. What follows is a description of Earth Peoples Park 
as we now conceive it, those of us who have devoted our energy 
toward its realization. 
Earth Peoples Park is the name given to an idea and to an act of 
faith. The idea of acquiring and returning one small segment of 
Mother Earth back to herself. 
The faith to believe that in an environment NOT sectioned off by 
nations, property, words, and political sectarianism, people can 
live together in peace and harmony. 
This park, this nationLESS piece of Earth in a sectioned-off world, 
will be freed by the collective efforts of people inspired to partici- 
pate in this creation of a real alternative. 
Once the land is freed and the fences removed, a Festival of Life 
which will take the form of a Cultural/Ecological World’s Fair, will 
consummate the Earth. 
After the Festival, those who choose to make the land their home 
will remain. 
We are working toward making this happen during the Summer 
Solstice of 1970. 
Earth Peoples Park will be publicly initiated after the December 21 
meeting with an extensive appeal through all available media (e.g. 
underground newspapers, entertainment and other trade papers, 
weekly magazines, TV network news programs and interview 
shows, public service announcements on AM and FM radio; in 
fact, all methods of exposure which will allow an accurate 
presentation of the idea. 
This will be an appeal for each person who was at Woodstock 
either in person or in spirit, to contribute one dollar or more 
or less. 
We are concerned with finding new ways to live and work together. 
Selling tickets to an event is an old form which excludes some 
people for simply monetary reasons. 
But more important, it 
perpetuates the subject/object myth, and overemphasizes the 
Festival. We see the Festival as only a moment in history intended 
to celebrate the freeing of ourselves through working together to 
free the planet. 
Your politics & how you live your life, | don’t see 
any difference. 
This thing is a big mirror. 
My marriage broke up because | was being hostile 
to other people in order to please my wife. 
Most of the people | know who are supposed to 
have money, don’t. 
Going to the bands. 
|’m so fucking tired of that 
We gotta do it with some kinda honesty. 
We're just trying to save the world. 
They stopped making more land, and they're still 
making more people. The price of land is going 
up. 
From now until the summer solstice, energy is on 
Everybody has to become an ecologist. 
Traditional methods of fund-raising usually include soliciting well 
known people in the entertainment field, doing a benefit concert, 
and then doing good works with the profits. Or alternatively, 
seeking large sums of money from the Ford Foundation or 
enlightened inheritees. 
The proposed method of fund raising, in contrast to traditional 
methods, this total act of faith, is consistent with the spirit of 
Earth Peoples Park and provides the opportunity for everyone 
to participate equally in its creation. 
These contributions will finance the purchase of a large piece of 
land (50,000 to 100,000 acres) and will also finance the Earth- 
Warming to be held on that land, Between the time of the 
land’s acquisition dnd the Festival, a team of scientists and eco- 
logists will fully investigate the land to determine its capacities 
and capabilities. 
One million dollars will be needed for the freeing of the land 
itself and another half million to finance the celebration. 
This 
celebration, or ‘‘Cultural and Ecological World's Fair’’ will 
embrace all aspects of the emerging culture, giving an opportunity 
for architects, ecologists, doctors, lawyers, craftsmen, musicians, 
theater groups, farmers, etc. etc., to show their wares and 
exchange ideas. 
Again, in the spirit of Earth Peoples Park, all participants are 
welcome, but we will NOT ensure the success of this event by 
advertising the presence of celebrities. 
The land will be acquired and protected by a legally constituted 
non-profit corporation whose functions will be to receive all 
contributions, to purchase land, and handle all external legal 
hassles. 
It is proposed that the Hog Farm's non-corporation, 
INVISIBLE INC., act in this capacity. 
This corporation cannot and will not exercise any control what- 
soever over the land or its inhabitants. 
It has NO power to 
sell or rent the land, nor to tax or police the people. 
The greatest act of faith required of this idea, the idea of Ear*h 
Peoples Park, is that ACCESS TO THE LAND WILL BE DENIED 
TO NO ONE. There is no way to predict or prevent what we 
might consider to be improper use of the land. 
But at the same 
time the establishment of arbitrary rules and laws to ensure 
freedom has historically been proven unsuccessful. 
It is for this 
reason that we feel there should be no pre-established internal 
structure but that any social forms develop naturally and organ- 
ically. 
The topic of what balance between control and freedom best serves 
a community is most easily determined by the nature and conscious- 
ness of that community. 
However, once the land is chosen, qualified environmentalists and 
ecologists can pre-establish natural patterns through cultivation, 
construction, etc., before the land is inhabited. 
They can provide information and education as to which areas are 
best suited for farming, grazing, housing, etc., and which portions 
of the land would be best left alone for watershed, hunting, solitude, 
whatever. 
A primary-responsibility of the community will be caring for the 
earth, and any enlightened advice in this regard can make the 
difference between growth and disaster. 
Earth Peoples Park is the establishment of a new precedent, the 
offering of areal alternative for a great many people who may be 
bogged down and dissatisfied with their present life style. 
The birth of Earth Peoples Park, the freeing of a piece of Mother 
Earth can provide the inspiration for others to free their piece of 
the cosmos. 
It may inspire lawyers and judges to free their courts, 
scientists to free their laboratories, technicians to free their crafts, 
or citizens to free their lives. 
We might begin by freeing our thoughts and energies here and now. 
PEACE AND SUNSHINE 
The letter of invitation to the meeting was signed: 
Bill Alexander 
Buck 
Milan Melvin 
Edward Bear 
Glenn Roth 
Jon Goodchild 
Bruce Gilbert 
Mimi Melvin 
Tari Reim 
Gary Moder 
Rikki Stein 
Lucie Harris 
Wacco (Jere Brian) 
Sky Steinbrecker 
Once our native land grew grass 
and trees so very tall. 
Life was so pleasant 
we never thought of it at all. 
Only the lodges on the ground. 
and at night, wild animals prowling around. 
The yap of the coyote; the squeal of the porcupine. 
The chatter of the magpie. All these tell peace 
is in the valley. The horses in knee deep buffalo grass. 
Mountain streams full of beaver and trout. 
Contentment until it is time to pass on by. 
Minerva Allen (Assiniboine) in a book of undetermined price 
printed by WOPAPI, 3420 Alexander Court, Gakland CA 94601. 
Suggested by Richard Brautigan. 
