“age New Suggestions 
Concerning the following suggestions, if you have 
further information on suggested items, either pro 
or con, please let us know. 
Construction 
You might review the following for catalog listing: The 
Construction Bargaineer/P.O. Box 1061/St. Paul, Minn. 55105 
§ 
$4/year; 24 issues/this is catalog of catalogs & direct advert. 
of new/used/govt. surp. construction equipment (earth moving 4 
equip.; portable elec. gen.; trucks) and other light & heavy 
mechanical equipment. 
(I’ve never bought from them so 
can’t give judgement). 
| have several references to a variation of hydroponic gar- 
dening using expanded vermiculite. 
If you are interested 
in filling hungry bellies vs. implementing/illustrating a 
philosophy, then this looks good. One author claims you 
can feed a family of 4 from 200 sq. ft. (vegetables only, 
grown outdoors). By growing in a better climate or indoors 
with supplementary lighting (I have references on this, too), 
this could certainly be improved. 
I’m going to try this as 
soon as possible. 
If you want refs., let me know. /We do.] 
Charles T. Vollers 
Seneca, S. C. 29678 
The Future of the Future 
The Future of The Future; John McHale; George Braziller; 
$9.00 
“The future of the past is in the future 
The future of the present is in the past 
The future of the future is in the present’’ 
The Future of the Future is written in sociologese which may 
put you off / don’t let it / this is a very hip book / a good 
hard straight look at what's really happening in the real 
world of advanced thinking & technology / the future of 
the future looks good as long as we start busting our asses / 
straightaway 
John McHale says with Jackie Lomax-/ ‘‘There’s a new day 
dawning—& | think it’s gonna be alright—cause | can almost 
see the light—of the new day” 
E 
Peter Douthit 
Libre, Colorado 
“Our highest futures priority lies with social invention—" 
“But memory continually reshapes our biographic past in the same 
way that our selective perception and means of communication 
screen the present and future.” 
“Part of the ongoing utility of perfected forms is in their tacit 
dimension of unreachability—"’ 
“The task ... is to disentangle ourselves and our societies from those 
linearly deterministic theories of history that have come, almost, to 
- 
replace history itself.’’ 
“we must also move, concomitantly, to assume conscious 
responsibility for the overall stewardship of this planet.” 
“Organized information is now our major tool resource.” 
“Science... is another form of art, defined primarily as a 
symbol-ordering and verification activity.” 
“Technology may be as natural a part of human evolution as 
the differentiation of finger and thumb. ...” 
“.. the arts and other communication modes have enormously 
expanded his psychic exploration in space and time.” 
“The extension of knowledge in science, for instance, has not been 
through the simple addition of new facts but rather through the 
grasp of ways in which a great mass of factual information may be 
simply and elegantly structured into new conceptual wholes.” 
“With the decline in importance of heavy industry, the invisible 
ubiquity of miniaturized technologies and the increasing detachment 
of human energies from direct industrially productive work, we 
come toward a post technological society, just as we are now ina 
post agricultural stage.” 
- 
“To address ourselves to the questions of a planetary society is no 
wishful utopian fantasy but a sober recognition of everyday facts.” 
“Who is defending whom against what?’ 
“Politics is... now more the art of attempting to avoid the inevitable.” 
“The key to many of our difficulties lies in the identification of 
those social orientations that in the past had great survival value, 
but which may now endanger our survival in the present, or 
cripple our approach to the future.”’ 
“Work, as previously defined, is no longer the central life interest. 
It has lost its relation to the compulsive work ethic, to the principle 
of nationality and efficiency, and the notion of time as money, that 
is, as a Scarce commodity and socially significant unit.”” 
| Vivid Fatherhood 
Roger Knights Suggests 
SUGGESTION FOR WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Name of Item: HUSBAND-COACHED CHILDBIRTH by Robert 
A. Bradley, M. D. (N. Y.: Harper, 1965) 206 pp. Introduction 
by Ashley Montagu. 
Arthur H. Thomas Co., Box 779, Phila., Pa. 19105 is another 
scientific apparatus company which may send you a huge catalogue 
if you ask them nicely. 
(Phone no. is (215) MA7-5600) 
Used, lo-cost sewing machines can sometimes be bought at Singer's 
if you can convince them that you don’t have enough money to 
Price: 33:28 
‘ 
buy anew one. They seem to have a policy of denying that they 
Order from: 
Harper & Row 
have any used ones on hand, in order to encourage sale of the more 
49 E. 33rd St. 
expensive models. 
!f they do this, and you suspect it isn’t so, it 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
might be worth trying again in a week or 2 ‘‘to see if anything's 
been traded in’’. 
It worked once, that | know of. 
Review: 
Birth without the father is like a wedding without the 
groom. The idea of the father being present for the birth itself, 
to reassure his wife, to share the experience, ard to help, is 
so obvious yet so new that it needs an advocate as determined 
and compassionate as Dr. Robert A. Bradley. This pioneering 
book does not patronize fathers with the belittling cliche about 
“olaying a role’. Bradley sees the father as an essential partner 
in conception, in exercises during the entire nine months, and in 
the delivery room itself. The word ‘‘coach” is well-chosen, for 
the husband should be directly involved in encouraging his wife 
during the prenatal exercises (the Dick-Read natural childbirth 
method). 
The only adequate (phonograph) record-cleaner around is the 
“'Parostatic Disc Preserver’’, mfd. by Cecil Watts Ltd., Darby House, 
Sunbury-on-Thames, England. 
It’s a fuzzy black cylander which 
is applied to the record for a revolution or two before playing it, 
& which picks up all the groove-lint, etc. on it. The cleaner itself 
is cleanable (unlike ‘‘record cloths’’) by rubbing one’s thumb down 
it. It needs watering about once a month, and will last for years. 
lf the local record store doesn't have it, it can be ordered from 
Sam Goody's, 4635 54th Road, Maspeth, L.I., N.Y. 11378 for 
$4, plus 1.50 shipping charge, plus 5% sales tax for N.Y. State 
4 
residents. 
; 
Roger Knights 
‘Bradley's book is based on 17 years of obstetrical experience; he 
New York, N. Y. 
claims to have presided at over 7,000 births without loss of a single 
mother. When he first began experimenting with natural childbirth, 
Bradley noticed that wives were more at ease and more cooperative 
when their husbands were nearby in the labor room than when 
their husbands were later sent out. He especially noticed that 
the mothers’ joy at birth was mis-directed to obstetricians, and he 
concluded that fathers really belonged on the obstetrical team. 
How About an America Cup Wheelchair Race? 
Bradley agrees with Montagu that home is the optimum environment’ 
4p 
for birth, and notes that 96.4% of births are trouble-free, but says 
i 
the 3.6% chance of complications dictates that birth should be ina 
hospital. The father replaces the anesthetist who is not needed for 
natural childbirth. He is surgically clad, sits on a stool at the head 
of the bed, and wields a moist cloth and words of love and 
encouragement. 
Bradley urges husbands to bring a camera for 
“daddy pictures’ of mother, father, and infant together. 
All 
three can return home on the same day. 
What do you do—and you might answer this question 
in your next edition—with the poor people who 
cannot walk and who have just enough to buy a 
vehicle for 100 or 200$? And who risk to be fitted 
into their wheelchairs like the victims of Procrustes, 
the figure of Greek mythology, who put his short 
people in long beds and long ones in short beds, 
stretching the legs or cutting them off accordingly. 
Well, there is a good book out for those 400000 people 
or so, to speak only of USA. See the enclosed clipping. 
A couple wanting to share this experience should make whatever 
effort is necessary to locate a doctor and hospital that will 
cooperate. 
Bradley gives the address of the International 
Childbirth Education Association, Box 5852, Milwaukee, 
Wis. 53220 for further advice on fighting restrictions against 
the father. 
Reviewed by Gene Keyes 
Carbondale, Illinois 
Herman L. Kamenetz, M.D. 
eee 
State Veterans Hospital 
LEE PURE ar 
Rocky Hill, Connecticut 
ii 
THE WHEELCHAIR BOOK: Mobility for the Dis- 
ag 
abled by Herman L. Kamenetz, State of Connecticut 
LU Why not put Cyc/o-Pedia, a catalogue and handbook about 
Veterans Hosp., Rocky Hill. 
All types of rolling chairs, 
Up bicycling into your next book. 
It is made by Gene Portuesi, 
stands, beds, and walkers along with the services of each 
T E6447 Michigan Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48210. It sells 
are reviewed in this reference manual. 
Numerous illus- 
Ef’ 
Bobet” 
bikes which are damn good, and other accessories, 
trations. with explicit legends develop an understanding 
=i but it also throws in a lot of good bullshit about camping 
HE 
and riding about on derailleur bikes. 
| have the seventh 
E-j Fedition and | imagine that there must be a more recent one 
UF than but | really can’t tell you any more about that 
{sort of thing. 
E11 
Paul Levy 
of the hundreds of features of modern wheelchair design-— 
size. type, construction and accessories. Contains valuable 
information for professionals as well as laymen. “69, 288 
pp. (634 x 9°), 81 il., 8 tables, $14.75 
Charles C. Thomas, Publisher 
Springfield, Illinois 62703 
zoris around that last for two to four months of all-day 
: 
wee 
: 
4 Small Business Administration 
outdoor wear and don’t collapse after a few days and leave p 
E The Small Business Administration publishes over 70 
F bibliographies that deal with differing businesses and 
J functions. These can prove extremely useful to those 
k people contemplating a part time store of their own and 
E single copies are available free from the administration. 
Small! Business Administration, Washington, D.C., 20416. 
Mark McCain 
Salem, New Hampshire 
in Shoe Stores and Repair Shops. 
Peter 
Zen Mountain Center 
Carmel Valley, CA 
38. Toys 
89. House-to-House Selling 
40. Laundry and Dry Cleaning 
41. Mobile Homes 
. Bookstore Operation 
. Plumbing and Heating Job Shop 
. Job Printing Shop 
. Men’s and Boys’ Clothing 
. Woodworking Shops 
. Soft Frozen Dessert Stands 
. Furniture Retailing 
Notice All Personnel 
It is recommended that your headquarters screen the several 
fF 
hundred thousand Department of Defense field manuals, 
; 
Pager 
49. Warehousing 
prochiaieat manuals, pamphlets, and other publications for 
KOs Apnutel: 
Gn®, Accessories 
“for Womens ables 
1 E-jpossible inclusion in your catalog. 
Children 
UE Thank you. 
51. Trucking and Cartage 
Joel Graber 
Captain, US Army 
APO San Francisco 
axl] 
52. Store Arrangement and Display 
53. Hobby Shop 
54. Interior Decorating 
