_ Write for catalog to: 
_ New York, N.Y. 10003 
- (212) 228-8432 
“The Movement Speakers Bureau will provide any/all of 
Kids’ books 
. 
Since some of your readers have expressed an interest in 
children’s books, | think they would find The Horn Book 
Magazine most helpful. 
It is put out six times a year and 
can be obtained from the publishers: The Horn Book, Inc. 
585 Boylston Street, Boston 02116. 
It costs $6.00 a year. 
Every issue reviews all the most recent children’s books 
that are thought by them to be worthy of reviewing. 
There are also articles by well-known children’s authors 
and illustrators and librarians, news of recent children’s 
book awards and a page featuring children’s own writing 
and drawing. 
There is also an English counterpart to The Horn Book, 
which gives news of new English children’s books. This 
is: Children’s Book News, available from Children’s Book 
Center Ltd., 140 Kensington Church Street, London,’W.8. 
It also comes out six times a year and the U.S. subscription 
rate is $5.00 a year. 
Joan Schwartz 
Petaluma, CA 
Sesame Street 
“Sesame Street” is the name of a dandy little-kids’ 
program on educational TV which deals in an entertaining 
way with rudiments—like 3, and 5, and nose, and before. 
To augment the series there’s a “Parent/Teacher Guide to 
Sesame Street’, published monthly, costs $2, from: 
Guide 
m 
Box 9070B 
St. Paul, Minn. 55177 
teaches THE LETTER K (as in keys)— 
LISTENING—and 
PROGRAM 
“44 
what are 
little children made of? 
(the parts of the body) 
Play “Big Bird Bids You” (a new version of Simon Says). The 
game goes this way: whatever Big Bird says, everyone must 
do. “Big Bird bids you touch your hair. (Everyone must 
touch his: hair.) Big Bird bids you touch your eyelashes. 
(Everyone touches his eyelashes.) Play the game so that 
everyone stays in the game, even though he makes mistakes. 
Give each child a chance to be Big Bird and to tell the other 
children what to touch. 
Make a body poster for each child. This is an activity chil- 
dren enjoy doing again and again. Don’t hesitate to use it as 
often as you can. Have each child lie down on a large piece 
of paper. (Several sheets of paper taped together will do.) 
Trace around him with a crayon. When he gets up, he will 
see a life-size outline of himself. Have him color it in to look 
just like himself. As he names the parts of his body, write 
their labels on the poster. Hang all the posters in a row on 
the wall. ‘“‘That’s us!” 
/ 
Make a body poster. 
Move. Speak. 
the mentioned speakers etc./ or will arrange a package 
event to suit your climate. We encourage everyone to 
expand their conceptions and mix the media whenever 
possible.”” 
The speakers include Noam Chomsky, Hugh Romney, 
Terry Southern, Benjamin Spock, Tuli Kupferberg, 
Tim Leary, Abbie Hoffman, Paul Krassner, Rap Brown, 
Murry Bookchin, Reies Tijerina, etc. etc. 
MOVIE.SPEAK, 
CATALOG OF THE 
MOVEMENT. 
SPEAKERS BUREAU 
Movement Speakers Bureau 
333 East 5th Street 
Community Market 
Growing since 1967, this catalog lists now 36 communities 
and their products: hammocks, crafts, foods, furniture, 
cards, quilts, moccasins, etc. 
COMMUNITY MARKET was begun in 1967 to provide a place 
where individuals and groups concerned for social change could 
co-sell the products they were growing, fabricating, making or 
writing in order to provide income to support and extend the 
particular causes to which they were dedicated. We welcome all 
new-comers to this Fifth Directory-catalog. 
No price indicated. 
Write: 
Community Market 
P.O. Box 268 
Deerfield, Mass 01342 
Radical Films 
Some weeks ago | wrote you to place a subscription for myself for 
the catalog. 
| described my interest in the catalog and personal 
your policy, which | thought was no plugs if you were personally 
involved in something. But! see that conflict-of-interest was only 
directed to ‘‘personal friends’’, etc. of the Catalog. So this is what 
» Newsreel is. 
We make films. We organize and travel with films to community 
groups, colleges, communes, workplaces, institutions. The films we 
make are radical, political, hopefully participatory, ‘‘documentary”’ 
or fiction. We distribute as well foreign (Cuban, Vietnamese, 
European, and shortly Japanese) films by brother organizations. We 
make films collectively, live communally and work collectively 
& 
wherever and whenever possible. 
For some time our films have 
borne no personal credits. 
For many or most of its members 
Newsreel is a full-time activity, as far as possible, since only 
full-time office staff is salaried (at subsistence). 
We are part of the capital-M Movement and of many little-m 
movements. The content and subjects of our films are apparent 
from our catalog; our educative function is to show the people 
(or people) how and why power should be removed from the 
despoilers and exploiters. Knowing these hows and whys is a 
cumulative process of learning by showing the films to people 
and talking to and learning from them. 
’ One further thing: the catalog prices are for those institutions, 
etc. that can afford them. A large part of our showings are made 
with other, cheaper arrangements. 
Hope you wish to list us among the company of tool-makers. 
Martin Janal for NY Newsreel 
322 7th Avenue 
New York, N.Y. 10001 
Learning Gear 
Thanks loads, for listing our way out stuff on page 117 of the 
last, Fall 69, Catalog. 
Sorry the price of HOW MANY: A NEW MATH-PRIMER 
(1.95, discounts for multiples of 10) was not included. A 
copy of it and many other things plods on its way to you. 
Mujji Ubu, 230 Yale Ave, Kensington, Cal, has a number of 
our things including 
HOW MANY 
FIRST ABACUS 
ABAMAT (a special abacus) * 
our fantastic delerious color box RAP 1 
$35.00 
our unbelievable MONEY BACK GUARANTEED first 
reading program (3 minutes’ classes for six weeks and your 
weenie is reading Dr. Suess, P.D. Eastman, or McGuffey, 
‘ depending on your hangup—no failures yet, and no readiness 
criterion—slum kids, nonverbal amentated kids, all kinds of 
! crazy kids, ‘‘normal’’ 4 year old, non reading 14 year olds, you 
name it. $25.00 
| and a whole bunch of other stuff. 
John Holt tells me that | can tell you that.he has bought half 
F| adozen MODERN READING. And he also tells me | can 
j| 
tell you that my new book: THE SPECIAL CHILD: A 
HANDBOOK FOR BEHAVIOR CHANGE is the most important 
|! 
book around (Acropolis, Wash DC 1970) $7.50 and that you will 
hi 
get cancer if you don’t read it. Holt is such a good damned 
marvelous man. 
| hope you like all the klutz we are sending you. We are 
probably the most $$ successful intentional community not 
based on sectarian religion (13 of 34 are kind of Brethren in 
amore or less Hutterian sense) and we also think we are 
successful in the non $$ areas. 
But man does not live by 
_ spirit alone, but by bread. We will consult, for free, to communities 
FP 
that practice common ownership, and for a fee to hospitals and 
other institutions, or communities that are addicted to property. 
We also welcome visitors, but, since we are in the midst of a 
P 
filthy fight with politicians we encourage them to come clean, 
1 
shaven and Brooks Brothered. Freedom and dignity for kids 
are more important than other atavisms. 
: Talia SYSTEMS 
A DIVISION OF GREEN VALLEY SCHOOL, INC. 
BOX 606, CRANCE CITY, FLORIDA 33763 
Peace, 
George Von Hilsheimer 
Box 606 
Orange City, Fla 32763 
interests in that letter, but didn’t mention Newsreel, misunderstanding 
fF 
4d ans 
Black Reading List 
Robin’s Distributing Company lists 600 books “relating 
the Black Experience” and 200 or so other revolutionary 
political titles. Looks pretty comprehensive. 
from: 
Robin's Distributing Company 
& 6 North 13th Street 
Mm Philadelphia, Pa. 19107 
Larry Robin (see above) suggests 
Dwelling House Construction by Albert Dietz Van Nostrand 
{| Co. An excellent book on frame construction. Although 
h you need some background to be able to handle it. In 
P outline form including specification clauses—diagrams— 
tables & step by step directions. 
1 and 
| Handi-Fax $7.50 from LeFax 22nd & Sedgley Ave. Phila 
b Pa. Mainly diagrams & tables—precise ans to specific - 
questions i.e. what do you need for 100 sq ft of brick 
wall 4” thick with 4” joint thickness 
698 Bricks 
3.98 cu. ft. mortar 
or 
what floor joist for 16’ spacing—20’ span—130 Ib 
live weight 
Yans 
3x16 
[ with these books we built our house. 
L The catalog is great. 
My only criticism might be that it is non-political 
| but then | guess maybe political things should be seperate. 
Same goes for fiction. 
Larry Robin 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
L Navigational Electronic Boyscout 
d) RE: Navigational and associated arts. There is aviable 
y from the U.S. naval Oceanographic Office (Washington, 
D.C., 20390) a weekly Bulletin called NOTICE TO 
MARINERS. | get it in the world edition which contains 
navigation and other useful goodies for the whole world 
but | am told that it is avaible in various other editions 
r for smaller areas, like local Coast Guard Distriets. 
Furthermore 
its free, as far as | can tell. You can pick up copies for current 
. weeks at the local Coast Guard Office, Coast and Geodetic 
Survey Office or the ESSE offices. Or you can have it mailed 
to you directly by wirting to the U.S.N.O. office in Washington. 
2. | saw nothing in the edition of the Catalogue which | 
examined at some lenght (Spring ‘69 and the July Supplement) 
about Correspondence Schools. 
In aday when information 
is vital and education is a tool to get at the rest of the world, 
| think this is by far one of the easiliest ways to get information 
in a means which will keep you going till you finish the work. 
Of course, we can suspect bad eggs among the many that we 
P hear of today But | can give you information on one branch. 
THE CLEVELAND INSTITUTE OF ELECTRONICS offers 
courses in Electronics of several levels. The materials are 
A well written and through. Units of sutdy are rounded out 
4 by an examination which is mailed in, corrected and 
P 
returned complete with commentary. 
Service is excellent, 
and they do just what they say ‘‘to teach you electronics” 
| Cost is average but many of the courses carry amoney back 
guarantee if you fail the Federal exam for the Comercial 
b 
radio license, after receiving a CIE Certificate. 
t \‘m currently checking into a Business correspondence School 
| which is supposed to be decent. 
1 
3. RE: Heathkit. 
| am an electronics engineer (among 
[other things) and find the Heathkit goodies great. 
In 
J one piece of work | did | got into a discussion of its 
L quality with another (more experienced) engineer and we 
d 
had arun off between my Heathkit stuff and his Hewitt- 
h Packard equipment (which is supposed to be the best, 
A and is the most expensive). Heathkit won, hands down. 
4 What can | say, | wasamazed. 
b 4. In your July Suppliment you asked for comments of the Boy 
‘Scout Handbook. The latest edition (7th, fifth printing 1/1969) 
is by far their best. BSA is Very conservation conscious and have 
modified many of their ealier outdoor practices, to help teach 
4 that to stay on this earth we had better damn well conserve it. 
F Through the various editions there is a slow drift away from 
the ‘‘goodie goodie two shoes” outlook on life, though it still 
| sticks to the basic premises of a good life. Thankfully it has 
become less puritan and more healthly american. 
In general it 
|. 
is written for use with in the organization for the boy climbing 
d 
the rank ladder, but will be easiler for a boy to learn about a 
b 
lot of things than using its big brother THE FIELDBOOK. 
A 
Well written, well illustrated and bound so that it will take a 
4| beating. Mine lasted through 10 weeks of wilderness outcamping 
r and looks good as new binding wise. 
Its always nice not to have to 
re-staple the pages in. Scst, still a dollar, from the local BSA 
distributor; or direct from Publication Services. B.S.A., New 
Brunswick New Jersey. 
Theodore E. Parks 
New York 
