- Anyone who has read this far and who is seriously considering the 
‘moove as | have suggested will do well to make considerable preparation 
in this country and in Canada before finally embarking. Take 
evrything with you that you can in your first trip. Upon entering 
_ Canada as a landed emigrant you are allowed a considerable ammount 
of duty free goods which is quite an advantage to you. 
| would 
suggest that you bring all of your personal clothing, furniture (maybe), 
and equipment and vehicles if possible. 
|f you plan to garden or farm 
you will be wise to bring your own rototiller (1 suggest the large 
Aarens or Howard Rotovator) and such other power equipment as 
_ you have or think you will have need of. Many of these things are 
cheaper in the states and you might find a good used piece of 
equipment for sale at a low price here, in the Charlottes you won't. 
Acar, jeep, truck, or if you wish, a horse and buggy are all in 
order. 
A boat, Kiyak, or seagoing Canoe are all in order but you 
can buy or build them in Canada just as well as here. For the 
“nomads among you a two man kiyak of the “Kittiwake’”’ pattern 
_as described in ‘‘Canoes and Canoeing’ by Pearcy Blandford, 
Lutterworth Press, will be of especial value as they will carry 
850 Ibs. with no strain. Outfitted in any one of the possible 
ways, this type of boat will be a real joy to have. A commercially 
built boat which is almost as good may be had from Klepper of 
Germany. See a boating or sports shop or magazine for more 
details. 
_As | have stated, wool clothes are a must, but don’t buy any 
“until you are there, then let the circumstances dictate the nature 
of your purchase. The Hudson’s Bay Co. Catalogue can supply 
_ many of your needs but so can some of the indian women 
_who knitt wonder natural wool garments which will shed quite 
_ nicely the occasional light rain. These garments are sometimes 
__ called Cowichan swetters, caps, mits, etc. Keep in mind that 
it seldom if ever goes below 30 degrees throughout this area 
-and a couple of wool blankets or a down compforter are just 
about all you will need for bedding. 
Anyone planning to camp out at the start will do well to bring 
an A shaped tent with one or better, two, over fly tarps as 
_ tents tend to become soggy if continually exposed to light showers 
over a prolonged period of time. There is an excellent open fron half 
shelter illustrated in the back of ‘‘Alaskan Adventure” which would 
make a perfect shelter for most campers. 
The small one burner Coleman stove will be best for cooking if you can’t 
afford the extra shipping weight of larger stoves and once established 
you will be able to get something better. A good lantern or the kerosene 
lamps listed in ‘’The Whole Earth Catalogue”’ will also be desireable items 
to bring. A hint here, if you don’t like the smell of kerosene then burn 
pear! oil which is produced by Shell Oil Co. and is just a deodorized 
kerosene. 
_ After arriving in the islands and selecting a location, get started, build 
your house and start exploring the possabilities of the area. The Queens 
| 
Printer, Ottowa, Ontario, Canada, has printed a two volumn set of 
books just dealing with the plant life on the Queen Charlotte islands. 
he vegetarians and nature lovers among you will love it. 
he University of California at Berkeley or Davis have printed material 
on how to build an anerobic composter for disposing of animal or 
human feces and producing natural gas for cooking and heating, when 
the matter is spent it may be safely applied to the land as fertilizer. 
These composters if properly built and operated should be perfect 
for the operation of each large ‘‘Clan’’ house and | think may produce 
all of your cooking and maybe most of your heating needs. 
Examine the possabilities of using material in ‘‘Japanese Homes and 
Their Surroundings” by Morse, Dover Pub., for aids in making the 
| interiors of your houses as livable and compfortable as possible. 
Make the acquaintance of the R.C.M.P. representative in your area 
‘and let him know something of what you plan to do. This is better 
han arousing their curiosity and having them snooping around 
ying to find out what you are up to. 
Find out whome among the locals both white and indian that you 
can depend upon for help and advice. Dont waste any time getting 
to know your new home. 
If you have hard times when you first 
arrive you may apply for and recieve Social Assistance from the 
government for each member of your group in the amount of about 
$70C per month. 
\side from vast forest and a tremendous wildlife population there 
fl 
i 
t 
I 
are also gold, iron, coal, argelite (a form of slate), and other mineral 
ey 
| deposits which will be usefull to you. Get a good and BIG dog and 
ey 
keep it with you in the bush but train him to deal with bears first. 
= 
§) 
A good 308 caliber rifel will be an asset but the small over and under 
La 
20 guage shotgun and 222 rifel combination currently available in 
1a 
all firearms outlets will meet most or all of your needs for getting 
Vay 
pot meat. Pistols are generally frowned upon in Canada and you 
is 
| don’t need one anyway. 
re 
Areal photographs are available covering the whole island group 
Wag 
from the forementioned Geodetic office so if you are in doube it 
< 
will only cost you a few cents for a picture of any objective you 
KY 
may have in mind and the office will inlarge specific areas to suit 
ek 
your needs and your detail requirements. No area need be entered 
ey 
without a fore knowledge of just what it holds. 
= 
| 
Those among you who consider yourselves ‘‘indian traders” will 
1 
well to include a large supply of Blwe abalonie shells and %" 
. 
|| to %" white shell buttons in your barter bag for use as guifts and 
. for traiding goods. These indians sometimes use several pounds 
of pear! buttons to decorate a blanket for use in the winter pagents 
Vey 
| held in the community dance houses. 
Ver 
| 
SX 
1f you plan to keep.goats and | think you should then by ali means 
os 
_ send $3.00 to the ‘’Dairy Goat Journal,’’ P.O. Box No. 837, 
x4 
Columbia, Missouri 65201, and get their literature. There 
Ves 
are already a number of B.C. goat keepers who advertize in 
is publication and who will be only too glad to supply your 
<i 
eds. One of them is, Alpine Meadows, Mrs. Irene McDonald, 
i 
. 5, Langley, B.C., Canada, 7581-209. Although | am fond 
of the Nubian goat it is possible that some of the other breeds 
would be better suited for the Charlottes. Perhaps the French 
pine, Toggenberg, and maybe the Saanen would be the best 
r milk and perhaps the angora would. be worthwhile for its 
‘ool if it likes the climate of the area. 
low, if | can be of further service to anyone interested in this 
Project | stand ready to act in the capacities of adviser and coor- 
dinator for forming groups for commune or cooperative projects. 
“ 
Just address me at the above address and | will answer you at my 
rliest possible convenience. A word of advice, it is not likely 
at either the white or indian population would make a negro 
elcome in the area and | don't encourage anyone to encourage 
such unwelcome emigration. 
very interested in seeing something done of a worthwhile 
ture in the Charlottes and may moove there myself when | 
finally released from this prison. | am also interested in 
‘Material concerning the Charlottes and anyone who has any 
publication, book, map, or phamplet which they do not have 
rther use for | would be grateful if you would send it to 
»bi Traub, Jewish Chappel, San Quentin Prison, Tamal, 
ifornia, with a letter inside stating that the inclosed material 
rme. Although | am not Jewish this kind man preforms 
Pe es 
TARA 
IAEA 
USAR ARH OUR 
IHR 
RLS 
this service for meas otherwise all material sent to me would simply 
be destroyed. 
| am also interested in other community projects and 
any old literature of this sort which is no longer needed will be 
VaR 
warmly recieved and will be widely read as there are others here 
Se 
besides myself who are interested in this sort of project and we 
KS 
share our information, freely. 
Van 
At this writeing | am also preparing a paper, later to be published 
Van 
as a book, dealing with the material contained here. 
It will expand 
Se 
upon this project considerably and go into details concerning the 
KS 
workings of the community projects which | have mentioned here 
eS 
and it will in so far as my resources and research material will allow 
ey. 
Paint an accurate picture of what can be or is being accomplished 
KR 
by the partisipants for themselves. 
Ver 
| hope to provide maps house plans, boat designs and clothing 
Ven 
requirements as well as information on virtually evry other aspect 
SI 
of this project. This will be needed by the modern day colonist in 
LS 
order to make a success of establishing an organic community at one 
Vey 
with its surroundings and a part of the ecology. This outline is 
Se 
understandably brief and my research limitations have, unfortunately, 
1 
limited it more than | would have liked but, for the serious minded 
an 
among you who would like to pursue the matter further | offer the 
Se 
following bibliography which is itself quite limited in its scope but 
KS 
potentially useful and through it considerable expansion of the 
ee 
contents of this article may be made. 
Feel free to write and express 
Se 
yourselves if you feel you have something of value to offer but 
KA 
please try to give as many details as possible and be specific to 
VS) 
details. 
) 
Basketry of the Tlingit, Memoirs of the American Musiem of Natural 
Be 
History Vol. 3 
KA 
The Chilkat Blanket, Memoirs of the American Musiem of Natural 
vey 
History Vol. III 
= 
se 
Indian Silversmiths on the Pacific Coast by Barbeau, Marius 
ey 
Haida Carvers, 1957, Anthropological Series No. 8, Bulletin 139, 
ey. 
National Musiem of Canada, Ottawa. 
=) 
“ 
SS 
Native Arts of the Pacific Northwest, Robert T. Davis, 1949, 
KX 
Stanford University Press 
ee 
Report on the Queen Charlote Islands. Geological Survey of Canada, 
Se 
Report of progress for 1878-79, by G.M. Dawson. 
KY 
The Whale House of the Chilkat, Musiem of Natural History, Vol XIX 
Vay 
The Art of the Northwest Coast Indians, Natural History, Vol. XXX. 
S< 
Making a Bird or chiefs’ Rattle, Davidson Journal of Anthropology, 
KS 
Vol |, No. 2, 1955a 
Ve 
Indians of the Northwest Coast, Erna Gunther 
I 
The introduction of Monetary Shells to the Indians of the Northwest 
KA 
Coast, Heizer, Robert, Pacific Northwest Quarterly, Oct. 1940 ey 
N.W. Coast Indian Art, R. B. Inverarity, Washington State Musiem 
ey) 
Heraldic screnes of the Tlingit, E. L. Keithahn, Alaskan Sportsman 
KS 
Vol. XXVIII 
ee 
The Haida Indians of Queen Charlotte's Islands, James G. Swan, 
BS 
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XVI, 1874. 
eh 
War Helmets and Clan Hats of the Tlingit Indians, Louis Shotridge, 
Vey 
Musiem Journal, University of Pennsylvania, Vol. XX. 
Ss 
Monuments in Cedar, 1963, Superior Press. 
1 
The Coast Indians of Southern Alaska and Northern British Columbia, 
Ver 
Albert P. Niblack, Report of the United States National 
<= 
Museum, 1888. 
KA 
Tsimshian Sculpture, the Tsimshian: 
Their Arts and Music, Paul Wingert, Ws 
Wingert, Vol XVIII, Publications of the American 
Ss 
Ethnological Society. University of Washington Press. 
KY 
“The Bark Canoes and Skin Boats of North America” by, Adney and 
ey): 
Chapell, U. S. National Musiem Bulletin No. 230, 242 
pages, $3.25, 1964, U. S. Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D.C, 20402. 
S 
“Frontier Living’’ by Edwin Tunis, 166 pages, 1961, The World 
Publishing Co., 2231 West 110th St., Cleveland 2, Ohio. 
In Canada, Nelson, Foster & Scott, Ltd. 
“Colonial Living’ by Edwin Tunis. 
“Kayaks to the Arctic’ by E. B. Nickerson, 1967, Howell-North 
Books, Berkeley, California, 197 pages. 
Vay 
Ke 
I 
i] 
) 
i 
| remain Cordially, 
Kieth D. Gilbert 
Tamal, California 
en 
ey 
Verh 
Canadian Tax Land 
Land Info on Alaska 
for Sale 
Bureau of Land Management 
Department of the Interior 
Fairbanks Land Office 
2nd Avenue 
Fairbanks, Alaska 99701 
H. M. Dignam Corp, Ltd. 
sends out a brochure every 
6-8 weeks listing parcels of 
tax land for sale through 
the company. 
Lists parcels 
in all provinces and includes 
a brief but accurate des- 
cription of each along with 
its location. Prices range 
from $200. to several 
Thousand depending on 
Locale, size, etc. 
State of Alaska 
Dept. of Lands & Minerals 
Fairbanks Land Office 
State Office Building 
Barnette & Sixth 
Fairbanks, Alaska 99701 
State of Alaska 
Dept. of Lands & Minerals 
Tracy S. MeCallum 
Juneau, Alaska 
Minneapolis, Minn. 
$1.00 brings four issues of 
brochure from 
H. M. Dignam Corp., Ltd. 
85 Bloor Street, East 
Toronto 5, Ontario, Canada 
Bureau of Land Management 
Department of the Interior 
Anchorage Land Office 
MAPS: 
U. S. Geological Survey 
Fairbanks Office 
1st Avenue 
Fairbanks, Alaska 99701 
Merritt Helfferich 
College, Alaska 
Agricultural Info 
New Canadian immigrants who are setting up farms or looking for 
suitable sites should acquaint themselves with the publications of 
the various Departments of Agriculture. 
In addition to the Canada 
Dept. of Agric. each province has a department of its own. Most 
publications are free. The quality however, is subject to great 
variability. Some are excellent, some are disappointing. 
(For 
example “Ontario Vegetable Production Recommendations 1969” 
contains an excellent and complete variety of information covering 
all aspects of raising each individual vegetable, while ‘‘Ontario 
Fruit Production Recommendations 1969” is concerned solely 
with the use of insecticides.) The subjects covered range from 
very general (‘‘Farming in Canada’’) to very specific (‘‘Control 
of the Purple Backed Cabbage Worm in Newfoundland”’). 
The Canada Department of Agriculture will send copies of up 
to ten publications free to individuals. The List of Publications 
is available from: 
Information Division, Can. Dept. Ag., Ottawa. 
They also offer for sale at $2 each a great series of soil surveys— 
very useful to anyone considering buying land for farming. 
Each province has its own Department of Agriculture. 
In Ontario 
the provincial dept. will send up to ten free publications to each 
adult resident who requests. The list of publications is available 
from: 
Information Division, Ontario Dept. Ag. and Food, Par- 
liament Buildings, Toronto. 
- In tsolated areas cultured dairy products such as yogurt, cottage 
cheese and sour cream are unavailable at the shops. However 
these can easily be prepared at home. 
Recipes, information and 
bacteria cultures are available from: 
International Yogurt Co., 
8478 Melrose Place, Los Angeles 46, California, or, in Canada, 
Institut Rosell de Bacteriologie Laitiére Inc., 507, Rue Fortune, 
Montréal 22, P.O. 
In areas where the fresh product is available 
the product itself can be used as a starter (as, of course, it 
contains the required strain of bacteria.) With reasonable care to 
preserve sterility one culture will last a long time. 
Does anyone know a satisfactory method for growing bread 
yeast? This turns out to be the most expensive ingredient in 
making bread. 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Ruppell 
Hearst, Ontario 
SELECTIONS: 
Canada Department of Agriculture publications 
1296 
Farming in Canada. GO pp. 
Illus. 
1966 
1224 
Climate of the Upper Peace River region. 20 pp. 
Illus. 
868 
Manures and compost. 
16 pp. 1962 
meee 
Catalogue of P!ans: 
Sheep housing and equipment. 
28 pp. 
Illus. 
1965 
1019 
Sunflower Seed production. 24 pp. 
Illus. 
1967 
849 
Plums for cold areas of Eastern Canada. 
16 pp. 
Illus. 
1217 
Culture of cigarette burley tobacco. 8 pp. 
Illus. 
1964 
1205 
How to grow mushrooms. 
16 pp. 
Illus. 
1965 
27 
Swine Breeding. 36 pp. 
Illus. 
1962 
1023 
The dairy goat. 
16 pp. 
Illus. 
1957 
861 
Mushroom collecting for beginners. 32 pp. 
Illus. 
1958 
1192 
Gardening in the Yukon. 32 pp. 
Illus. 
1963 
1322 
Booklice. 
1 pp. 1967 
1362 
How to grade furs. 96 pp. 
Illus. 
1968 
ONTARIO Department of Agriculture and Food 
128 
Beekeeping in Northern Ontario 
487 
The Grape in Ontario 
502 
Table Turnips 
94 
Cultured Dairy Products 
193 
Tractor Transmission Systems 
476 
Farm Water Supply 
321 
Wine Making in Small Quantities 
283 
White Grubs 
226 
2,4—D Can Damage Crops 
Monthly Seasonal Fruit and Vegetable Report 
Crown lands 
The Acquisition of Crown Lands in British Columbia (Land Series 
Bulletin No. 11) is the official word on procedure, regulations and 
the access to further information on obtaining government lands 
in B.C. 
(I'd guess that the other provinces publish similar 
bulletins.) 
Get it free from the Government Printing Bureau, 
Victoria, B.C. Comes with 2 maps of B.C. (back to back): No.1— 
Land Recording Districts and a list of Land Series Bulletins Nos 1-10 
(each is reputed to give info on physical features and economy 
of subdivisions of the province.) 
No. 2—Index to Provincial Land 
Status Maps.—each divides available from non-available lands in a 
small area of B.C. 
The procedures for obtaining gov't land in B.C. sound arduous and 
in all cases except outright purchase, access is limited to British 
subjects or immigrants. Nonetheless, far more cheap land appears 
to be available in Canada than in the States. We'll be checking these 
rumors, gathering information and looking for land this year. We'll 
keep you informed. 
Bill Dickinson 
Marysville, WN 
Climate info 
The most convenient source of accurate information on the climate 
& weathre for Canada is a small series of mimeographed sheets, two 
for each and every province, entitled ‘Precipitation Normals for 
British Columbia’ (or wherever) and ‘’Temperature Normals of 
British Columbia’ (or, again wherever) The cost is a mere 10¢ 
per sheet. 
Unfortunately, the temperature sheets give only the monthly and 
annual normals of mean daily maximum, mean daily minimum, and 
mean daily temperatures. No map is included either, nor even the 
stations’ latitude & longitude. 
But all this information, plus a 
mountain more is given for much of the country in two sizable 
booklets called The Climate of Central Canada and The Climate 
of British Columbia and the Yukon Territory. The cost of 
these nice booklets is $1.30 each. 
All the above publications are now obtainable, remittance with 
order, from the director, Meteorological Branch, Deptartment of 
Public Transport, 315 Bloor Street West, Toronto 5, Ontario 
Canada. 
The above is a reprint from page 21 The Complete Walker by Colin 
Fletcher. 
Thanks 
Uncle Tom Rosen 
L.A., CA 
