ir stomach of success 
have grasped a great idea. Don’t let go and protect 
urself. You will be submitted to all sorts of pressures 
conform, change in someone else’s direction, or pull 
your punches. Don’t. Many of these pressures will be 
subtle or even invisible. 
ada 
D. M. Moore 
veg) 
Galesburg, IIlinois 
Y 
(2 
\ir structure contractors 
4 
~ 
7 
x 
Birdair Structures, Inc. 
2015 Walden Ave 
130th & Indiana Ave. 
Buffalo, N.Y. 14225 
Chicago, II!. 60627 
«a 
= 
Air-Tech Industries, Inc. 
far 
9 Brighton Rd. 
Clifton, New Jersey 07012 
Cidair structures Co. 
HH 
ll the above companies made bids to Harvard to build 
bid and built a quite impressive building. 
This is the kind of thing new radical schools must look 
into. 
Best, 
: 
4 
CNOOODOObooo: 
OOOOOODoOoG 
their big air support athletic building. Air-Tech won the[_] 
John Holt 
io 
Boston, Massachusetts 
in make personal statements which the editor may not 
. He may add a remark or two. 
We deal, by now, with innumerable suppliers, subscribers, 
a pleasure. Ones that aren’t you may hear about here. 
( redit depts. of publishers who neither answer nor act 
} 
upon requests for changes of errors on statements. e.g. 
John Wiley & Sons [since acknowledged] 
ke 
A 
Lois 
Why isn’t Meher Baba in the Catalog? 
Joe 
"S 
d 
Me 
cbonlk 
etimes | don’t care about nothing, but right now | do. 
‘ sickens me to think that over 150,000 people are going 
ick up the Whole Earth Catalog and thoughtlessly 
nk it’s great, like | did. 
from the WHOLE earth. Roughly 80% of the peoples 
stic countries of this world. Yet for some reason the prob- 
ems of these “third world’’ people are not even mentioned 
the catalog. There are books and various publications 
en by educated and experienced writers on these 
blems and their solutions. | really don’t think the 
“Whole Earth” is quite adequate for the catalog at 
is point. 
tewart Brand, the man who originally erected and 
Onceived the idea of a Whole Earth Cataloy and truck 
re, does not seem to share my feelings that these 
of political books and various publications should 
cluded in the catalog. Once, while working with 
im on the catalog, | asked Mr. Brand if he would not 
*ground newspapers. Upon reply he told me that 
ee of the first restrictions he made for the catalog 
10 art, no religion, no politics. 
rently does not seem to think so, all of the three 
ground rules he set up for himself at the beginning 
with art and the contents of the catalog, just 
ime a few: 
Prints 
rt 
and Illusion 
this WHOLE earth are being sucked on by various capital- 
Brown rice again? 
Speciality food sells 100 pounds of brown rice (short 
grain organic) for $15 & its quality is far above Walnut 
Acres. Quality in fact is on same level as Chico San & 
E! Molino brands. (both several times the price.) 
Speciality Food 
116 W. Houston St. 
Pure land & ecology kits 
As an ethologist, ecologist and agriculturalist | would like to 
recommend that you stock the great little book, Bees: Their 
Chemical Senses, Vision and Language by the contemporary 
genius Karl von Frisch. The price is $1.45 from Cornell 
University Press, Ithaca, N. Y. His experiments have no parallel 
in comparative psychology for simplicity and beauty of design. 
What makes this book relevant to your subscribers is that it will 
| 
| 
|| 
| 
N.Y. 
N.Y 
J. E. Dombroski 
show them how to decode the secrets of animals at very little 
BADE 
hy oy: 
Washington D.C 
financial cost. 
| would be happy to review it if you wish. 
25: 
SG OR A eT Os Te aeat 
eae 
CIC : rac | 
a 
The other thing | wanted to bring up is that | am the director of 
DOOnooooooooOooOoOoOoOoOOoE Aireratt inspection 
Recently | came across a publication from the GPO on 
aircraft inspection that might save a life or two, and it only 
costs $0.50: 
Personal Aircraft Inspection Handbook 
FAA 
1964; 71 pp. 
It is intended for student mechanics, pilots, and aircraft owners 
customers. Most of the transactions are smooth and friendly 
who want to become more familiar with aircraft and inspection 
techniques. 
It contains valuable information for the pilot who 
[_] just warts to preflight his aircraft and for the mechanic who 
wants to determine the airworthiness of one. 
LJ There’s a lot to be learned from this book by anyone who flies 
an airplane. My flight instructor sure didn’t go into all the 
detail inside. 1t explains what causes wear and tear, and how to 
check for it. Fifty cents isa pretty low insurance premium. 
If 
something goes wrong you:can’t just pull over to the side of the 
C1 road and call che auto club. 
c 
taif Gripe Page 
The gripe page is a peace-keeping device where Catalog staff 
__,.. 
Malcolm Blackhall 
, ... Carmichael, 
CA 
People who don’t send us their change of address when 
they move & then want extra copies of Catalogs because 
they didn’t get theirs. 
Diana 
e 
Print (in Supplement) a challenge to the fellow who 
telephoned & called me a ‘Whore to the Businessmen 
of America,” etc, etc. to a Boffing match & then let 
Stewart stand in for me. 
Mary 
| think we have just defined the role “pimp”. 
—Stewart 
. 
e 
ever 
ry! ss ow he 
Pet or 
Then we move along to religion. Here we find only 
a few; The | Ching, Tao Teh King, The King and the 
Corpse. One could argue that these are not religious 
books as say compared to the Bible, but | do think one 
would find that they are mostly interesting to the religiously 
minded person. 
Lastly we come along to items of political 
significance. 
In this we find quite a few. 
Handbook for Conscientious Objectors 
The Population Bomb 
Population Evolution and Birth Control 
Birth Control Handbook 
Atlas Shrugged 
The Wall Street Journal and any number of “future” 
books. 
. 
| can understand why Mr. Brand makes such a distinction 
between, for example the Handbook for Conscientious 
Objectors and a good book on Marxian theory, it’s 
because he’s a capitalist. The inclusion of books on 
these subjects would hinder catalog sales, and after 
all it’s not serving the people that he’s interested in, 
it’s making money, and believe me he has plenty of 
it. Besides it’s against all his economical beliefs. 
Yes Mr. Brand’s personal feelings really show up in 
what should properly be called the “Stewart Brand 
Catalog.” From all the 128 pages of the Whole 
Earth Catalog there emerges an unmentioned political 
viewpoint. The whole feeling of escapism which the 
catalog conveys is to me unfortunate. 
| could go on about the unfairness which has occurred 
in hiring, firing and salaries at the truck store but I‘Tl 
spare you. 
Instead I'll say how | feel the catalog should be. It 
seems to me that the art department is o.k. A good 
religion section including all of the works of our avatar 
Meher Baba is deeply needed. And, you guessed it, a 
section concerning the repression and liberation of the 
Oppressed peoples all over this whole earth. 
ooo 
the NEW ALCHEMY INSTITUTE and our goals are to rebuild 
the land and protect the seas as well as inform the earth’s stewards 
of the health of the environment. We are non profit and also act 
as environmental constultants. My own research will be described 
in a forthcoming issue of Scientific American. The NEW ALCHEMISTS 
have recently embarked on a project to prepare environmental idea 
kits for those who wish to inform themselves of the present state 
of the environment. 
At the present they are general but we hope to 
proceed into specialist kits, e.g. DDT or lead or ozone etc. We also 
hope to map North America for “pure regions’ for homesteaders. 
Our own Loth Lorien experiment will involve several thousand acres 
in Nova Scotia and our survey to locate the region on the basis of 
environmental factors such as lead, PCB's, DDT fallout etc combined 
with agricultural suitability for replanting climax forests and eroded 
Valleys has begun. By using a variety of organic techniques and our 
ecological savvy we hope to rebuild the land in fifty years or so 
instead of several hundred, or thousands depending on the soil type 
and rain. 
|f man wakes up and doesn‘t destroy his environment and 
himself we might succeed, we might set a precedent. We are broke, 
exhausted and happy. 
I 
a 
IDE 
I 
With my best wishes, | am 
Cr 
Sincerely, 
John H. Todd 
Department of Zoology 
San Diego State College 
San Diego, CA 
aa 
Cappy: Fanny Farmer isn’t in; Ayn Rand is. 
@ 
noting the catalogs choice of translations of the tao te 
ching i was a bit dismayed...... 
having studied a little classical chinese myself and having 
read many xlations of the tao te ching, and in the spirit 
of Ezra Pounds ‘‘The Chinese Written Character as a medium 
for poetry” (city lights) and considering that E.P. knows a 
great deal about it, and having attempted translation of a 
few passages of the ttc, i heartily reject the notion of the 
concept of the tao being rendered as ‘‘nature and intelligence’ 
and recommend instead a translation by Dr. Chung, pub- 
lished by the St. Johns Press. 
; 
thank you 
tracy 
e 
-subaccrpt Lon for e 
The idea of the catalog is a good one. The people 
need a Whole Earth Catalog, but not the one they'‘re 
getting! 
If you feel at all the same, write Stewart 
Brand. 
Jai Baba 
Jay Bonner 
Counter gripe 
Jay worked with his brother Joe doing layout on the Fall Catalog 
and was not rehired for January production because of too many 
technical mistakes on his pages. Jay is 17. (I’m 31. How old are 
you? 
It matters, more than any of us like.) Correct | have some 
money, thanks to parents, which I’m putting into work like the 
Catalog. My salary is $5/hr. The Catalog is non-profit, so our 
income above expenses can only be spent on further educational 
projects. The capitalism question is interesting. 
I've yet to figure 
Out what capitalism is, but if it’s what we’re doing, | dig it. 
Oppressed peoples: 
all | know is that I’ve been radicalized by 
working on the Catalog into far more personal involvement with 
politics than | had as an artist. My background is pure WASP, 
wife is American Indian. Work | did a few years ago with 
Indians convinced me that any guilt-based action toward anyone 
(personal or institutional) can only make a situation worse. 
Fur- 
thermore the arrogance of Mr. Advantage telling Mr. Disadvantage 
what to do with his life is sufficient cause for rage. 
| ain’t black, 
nor poor, nor very native to anyplace, nor eager any longer to 
pretend that | am—such identification is good education, but 
not particularly a good position for being useful to others. 
| 
am interested in the Catalog format being used for all manner 
of markets—a black Catalog, a Third World one, whatever, but 
to succeed | believe it must be done by people who live there, 
not well-meaning outsiders. 
|’m for power to the people and 
responsibility to the people» Responsibility is individual stuff. 
My responsibility with the Catalog includes choosing what goes 
inte the Catalog and who works on it, and sometimes that’s 
enjoyable and sometimes it’s not, such as when you have to 
fire somebody you like. 
Stewart 
2 
