Brooks, Paul. “The plot to drown Alaska,” Atlantic Monthly, 
May 1965. Reprinted in William Schwartz, ed., Voices for 
the Wilderness. 
Tells the story about the Rampart Dam, one of our proposed 
contributions to the modern wonders of the world (we can’t let 
Nasser and the USSR outdo us!) 
Calder, Ritchie. ‘Polluting the Environment,” The Center Magazine, 
May 1969. 
: 
i 
wee 
, 
This is a powerful blast against self-fulfilling predictions, using 
the ecosphere as a laboratory for experimentation, and panacea 
solutions in general. 
Carson, Rachel. Silent Spring. Houghton-Mifflin 1962. Fawcett P * 
A landmark book which should be familiar to everyone, now a 
classic chronicle of death and destruction from the biocides we 
are told we depend on by self-serving ‘experts.’ One of the 
interesting things about this book ‘is the vituperation of many 
of the reviewers (in the chemical and agri-business industries, 
of course). This shows what happens to a reputable scientist 
when she lets her ethics and literary talent show too much. 
Chiapetta, Jerry. ‘Great Lakes—Great Mess,’’ Audubon May/June 
1968. 
A long list of paragraphs of Great Lakes gloom. Covers the 
problem thoroughly, though, and has'some incredibly ugly 
photographs. 
Cole, Lamont. “Pesticides: 
a Hazard to Nature’s Equilibrium,” 
Amer. Jour. Public Health 54-1 (ii), 1964. (RA421/A4; PH) 
This is one of four articles in this special issue on pesticides, two 
of which defend biocides. Make your own comparison. 
Fisher, James and Selina Charlton. “A Tragedy of Errors,’ Audubon 
Nov/Dec. 1967. 
; 
Several books have been written about the Torrey Canyon incident, 
but most of the chronology of this imbecilic disaster is covered 
here. No commentary on the real causes, though. 
Gilliam, Harold. 
‘Praise the Buck and Pass the Dirt,’’ Audubon 
Mar/April 1968. 
An account of the rape of the San Francisco Bay by one of the 
bay’s most sensitive and informed friends. 
Goldman, Marshall, ed. Controlling Pollution: 
the Economics of 
a Cleaner 
America. 
Prentice-Hall, 1967, 1967 P. 
This is a fairly interesting book. Among some standard popular 
articles, it has some useful reports on pollution experiences in 
the USSR. 
Graham, Frank Jr. ‘‘The Breath of Death,”” Audubon July/Aug 1968, 
and ‘The Infernal Smog Machine,"’ Audubon Sept/Oct 1968. 
Two splendid articles about air pollution, dealing with industrial 
and automobile sources, respectively. 
“Ear Pollution,” Audubon May 1969. 
About the “‘new” pollution we are all hearing, but dealing mainly 
with our second wonder of the modern world, the SST. 
Henkin, Harmon. ‘‘Problems in PPM,” Environment 11-4. May 1969. 
. 
The subject here is DDT and Coho Salmon in Lake Michigan. The 
latter were put there to solve an earlier man-made disaster, and 
appeared to be a rare success in ecological management until our 
famous and ubiquitous substance appeared. 
Hersh, Seymour M. 
Chemical and Biological Warfare. 
Bobbs-Merrill, 
1968. Anchor 1969 P *. 
See pp. 83-6 and 132-42 on anti-crop and anti-forest defoliation. 
For other references to the subject of defoliation see: 
Lappe, M. subsq. cit. 
(Part D.) 
Science Feb 21, 1969; Aug. 1, 1969; Oct. 17, 1969. 
Scientific American, Jan. 1968. 
Scientist and Citizen Aug/Sept. 1967. 
Leopold, A. Starker, et al. ‘Our Wildlife Refuges—A Hard, Critical 
Look,’ Audubon May/June 1968. Also in other sources such as 
Sierra Club Bulletin and National Wildlife. 
One of the few ‘‘advisory commission” reports worth reading, 
this is a comprehensive assessment.of the current wildlife 
situation. 
Marine, Gene, America the Raped. Simon and Schuster, 1969 **. 
This is a stimulating book with many annotated references. This 
reporter is quite good, newly turned on to ecology, and opinionated. 
Book is a useful if depressing report on the current American 
environment. 
Marx, Wesley. ‘‘How Not to Kill the Ocean," Audubon July 1969. 
An urgent plea for the most important preservation/boondoggle 
problem of all. 
Mellanby, K. Pesticides and Pollution. 
W. Collins, 1967 * 
. 
(SB959/ 
M44; B) 
- 
A survey of British experience and analysis of causes and effects. 
Very good. 
Mercuric Compounds: Environment 11-4, May 1969. 
This morning’s newsprint probably has been fumigated with a 
mercuric compound. They are so toxic, persistent, cumulative 
and ubiquitous that Sweden has banned these fungicides entirely. 
We don’t even acknowledge the problem and we use some 200 
times as much. The entire issue is devoted to the subject. 
Milne, Lorus and Margery. 
The Balance of Nature. 
Alfred Knopf, 
1960 *. 
Expert writer/scientists, these popular reporters have written a 
book which has a very good cultural and ethical orientation, and 
which recounts much of our failure to be “of nature’’. 
Moore, N. W. “A Synopsis of the Pesticide Problem,” Advances in 
Ecological Research 4, 1967. * (QH540/A3; B) 
This is not only a good synopsis, it is a good exercise in ecology. 
Novic, Sheldon. The Careless Atom. 
Houghton-Mifflin, 1968 * 
Informative survey of the atomic panacea. 
Rienow, Robert and Leona. Moment in the Sun: 
a Dial Report on 
the Deteriorating Quality of the American Environment. 
Dial 
Press, 1967 P **. 
Excellent but depressing introduction to the specifics of environ- 
mental deterioration. 
Schwartz, William, ed. Voices for the Wilderness. Sierra Club-Bal- 
lantine, 1969 P. 
An important collection of well-known essays which not only 
spell out the case for wilderness preservation, but the impli- 
cations more often than not involve general environment. 
Stead, Frank M. “‘California’s Cloaca Maxima’’. Cry California, 
Spring 1969. This is about the third new ‘‘wonder of the 
modern world,” The San Joaquin Valley Master Drain. A 
very clear report on what it is all about. The report is also in 
Environment 11-5, June 1969. 
Stewart, George R. Not so Rich as You Think. 
Houghton-Mifflin, 1968. 
Excellent writer; covers wide range of pollution, waste and 
exploitation. 
; 
U. S. Bureau of Mines. Automobile Disposal: A National Problem. 
1967. (HD9710/U52/A44; ED) 
There was a time when car corpses were recycled. Then a new 
steel technology appeared, price relationships changed, and the 
country is now literally covered with junk autos. That's our 
free enterprise system at work. 
Watkins, T. H. “Infernal Machines on the Public Lands,”” Cry 
California Spring 1969. 
This is about motorcycles, dunebuggies and snowmobiles. The 
sum is devastation. At a time when some of us are trying to give 
up internal combustion engines, several million people are finding 
new ways of playing out their second childhood. 
C. What has Brought the Biosphere to the Point of a Survival Crisis? 
This is a curious category. There are, it seems to us, Many persons 
advanced in literature for the decline of civilization, the demise of 
culture or life species. We intend here to do two things. 
First, we 
suggest some references for a look at history. Second, and far more 
important, we wish to provide a single focal point for the subject of 
population. Overpopulation appears to be a basic and ultimately 
critical cause of the current state of affairs. 
Bates, Marston. The Prevalence of People. Scribner, 1955, 1962 P ** 
(HB881/B34; M, B) 
Excellent popular book on the effects of too much mankind. 
Borgstrom, George. The Hungry Planet. 
Collier 1965, P * . 
(HD9000.5/B55; M, SS, PH, Ag) 
A very serious and absorbing travelogue on world hunger and 
the earth's biological limits. Explodes several optimistic myths. 
Too Many: A Study of Earth’s Biological Limitations. 
Macmillan 1969 * 
. 
This is a book of realistic calculations. 
It is one answer to those 
who are given to technological panaceas. 
Brown, Harrison. The Challenge of Man’s Future. Compass 1956 
P. Ake 
This is an early and prescient essay emphasizing overpopulation 
and recycling. 
Cole, Lamont. 
‘““The Ecosphere,” Scientific American, 198-4, April 
1958. 
Essential reading; a grand overview of the earth’s life-support 
capabilities. 
Commoner, Barry. 
Science and Survival. Viking 1966 P **. 
(Q125/C62; M, Ag) 
This book is essential reading for those who want to know what 
the debate is about concerning uncontrolled environmental 
experimentation, misuse of science, scientific prostitution, and 
the amoral, pseudo-objective elements in the world of science. 
Currie, Lauchlin. ‘‘Economics and Population,”’ Population 
Bulletin 23-9, April 1967. (HB881/A1/P65; SS, PH) 
This is a crisis paper, setting forth the dimensions of the crisis 
effects of exploding population with emphasis on economics 
and social effects, and attention to both developed and Third 
World problems. 
Dale, Tom and V. G. Carter. Topsoil and Civilization. 
University 
of Oklahoma Press * 
. 
Analyzes world history from the standpoint of man's relation 
to soil. Very interesting. 
3 
Dansmann, R. F. The Destruction of California. Macmillan 1965, 
Coller 1966P*. 
The title is self-explanatory, but this book has relevance far 
beyond state lines. Lots of comparisons with how things used 
to be. 
Davis, K. ‘‘Population Policy: Will Current Programs Succeed?” 
Science 158, Nov. 10, 1967. 
Strong critique of the inadequacy of family planning for population 
control; shows why stronger measures are needed. Many good 
references. 
“Review of Colin Clark: 
Population Growth and Land 
Use," Scientific American, 
Aug. 1968. 
Useful essay against the Church and Establishment economics 
viewpoint. 
. 
Day, Lincoln and Alice Day. Too Many Americans. 
Dell 1964, 
Delta 1965 P ** 
. (HB915/D3; M, B, UG) 
Stresses America’s responsibility for control of her own population 
explosion. Note how neglected this point is in much overpopulation 
literature. 
Egler, Frank. "Pesticides—In our Ecosystem,’ American Scientist 
52-1, March 1964: Reprinted in Shepard and McKinley, Subversive 
Science. 
One of the unusual contributions here is a discussion of the diffi- 
culty of transmitting ecosystem knowledge to the public. 
Ehrlich, Paul R. The Population Bomb. 
Sierra Club, Ballantine, 1968 
Pitas 
The “Rachel Carson” of the late ‘60's, Ehrlich is another “‘scare”’ 
author who knows what he is talking about. See also Ehrlich, 
"The Population Explosion: 
Facts and Fiction, The Sierra 
Club Bulletin, 1968. 
Faulkner, Edward H. Plowman’s Folly, 
Univ. of Oklahoma Press, 
1943. 
This book caused a radical re-examination of a widely accepted 
and ecologically destructive plowing method, one which had 
been advised by Agricultural Extension people for decades. See 
also Faulkner, 
A Second Look, where he re-examines the ideas 
advanced in Plowman’s Folly. 
Frank, Lewis C. Jr. ‘People vs. Population,’” The Center Magazine 
1-2, Jan. 1968. 
Deals rather effectively with a variety of population growth 
myths: cornucopia, self-sufficiency, moderate growth, tech- 
nological salvation. 
Graham, Frank Jr. Disaster by Default: Politics and Water Pollution. 
M. Evans and Company, 1966 * 
. (TD223/G7; ED) 
Using many government sources, this book traces a major 
example of our strange culture/economics syndrome, our ten- 
dency to lack foresight, to apply too little too late, and at 
astronomical cost. 
~ 
__ 
ss “The Uncertain Defenders,”’ and ‘’Pesticides, Politics 
and the Public,"’ Audubon May/June and July/Aug. 1967 
respectively. 
A special two part report on control and regulation of pesticide 
use. Essential reading on pest control policy. See also his 
forthcoming book Since Silent Spring. 
, 
Hardin, Garrett. ‘“The Tragedy of the Commons,’’ Science 162, 
1968. 
; 
The thrust of this article is a lesson in welfare economics—the 
myopia of individual action and the need for a general policy 
of ‘‘mutual coercion.” 
ed. Population, Evolution and Birth Control. 
Freeman 1964, 1969 P. (HD851/H28; SS, B, Ag) 
£ sree 
Subtitled ‘A Collage of Controversial Ideas," thisisapersonal 
= 
" 
and highly edited collection, but there is much usetul and basic 
material here. 
4 
~« 
os 
, 
ae 
Jacks, G.V. and R.O.Whyte. The Rape of the Earth. Faber, 
1939. (S623/J34; UG) 
is 
; 
Gives a world tour of soil erosion and its history. 
eat 
Krutch, Joseph Wood. ‘The Demise of Natural History,” Audubon 
Sept/Oct 1967. 
Laments the biologist’s retreat from nature and cites (from 
Marston Bates) the Webster's latest definition of natural 
history as a ‘‘former”’ science. 
Merton, Thomas. ‘The Wild Places,” 
The Center Magazine, 
1-5, July 1968. 
¢ 
Deals with the pioneer” love/destruction of wilderness 
contradiction, and with the (non-unique) contribution of 
Christianity to environmental destruction. 
‘ 
Moore, Barrington Jr. Totalitarianism and Democracy. 
This is a fascinating book which discusses the relationship 
between the form of land ownership and the historical fate 
of nations like Russia, China, France, England and the U. S, 
Although the author is not directly interested in ecology, 
Sots 
the work does give the reader a picture of the ecological 
y 
consequences of sharecropping, extended families, exorbitant 
I 
rents and the like. 
= 
Ordway, Samuel. Resources and the American Dream. Ronald 3 
ery 
Press 1953. (HC103.7/07; M, F, B, UG) 
: 
A short philosophical essay evaluating the American “religious” 
drive for an ever higher level of living and our failure to recycle — 
nutrients and other “waste” resources. Condemns growth 
; 
goals and gadgetry, and argues for limiting consumption and 
regeneration of an individualism based on productive labor, 
— 
creativity and careful resource use. 
Osborn, Fairfield, ed. Our Crowded Planet. Doubleday, 1962*. 
(HB851/08; UG, B) 
The essays discuss various effects of overpopulation including 
; 
resource depletion, hunger, pollution and crowding. 
me 
Sauer, Carl. ‘Theme of Plant and Animal Destruction in Economic 
4 
History,’’ Journal of Farm Economics 20, 1938. Reprinted in 
C. Sauer, Land and Life. 
te 
A classic geography/history/ecology article. 
Spenglar, Joseph J., ed. Populatio1 Theory and Policy. 
Free Press 
1956 * 
. (HB 881/S67; M, SS, UG) 
2 
- 
Many articles on population theory, economics, politics and | 
sociology. A basic reference work. 
ae 
oe 
___ 
“Implication of Population Changes for Business,” 
Commercial and Financial Chronicle, Aug. 11, 1966. Reprinted 
by the Population Reference Bureau. 
: ie eet 
This is a speech to industrialists which captures most of the Seats, 
important arguments against population growth for economic 
growth. Remembering his audience, ignore some of the political — 
overtones expressed. 
a 
a a oh 
Thomas, W. L., ed. Man’s Role in Changing the Face of the Earth. 
Univ. of Chicago Press 1956 * . (G56/168; M, Ag) 
1 
Se 
ree 
This book is expensive and very large but it is a timeless and» 
basic reference on culture/environment history. Widely used — 
by contemporary writers. 
ee ecry > 
3 
tk 
Vogt, William. People—Challenge’to Survival. Sloane 1960 * 
; 
(HQ766/V72; UG) 
‘tad #4, 
oan 
Significant is the emphasis given to the USA: 
its own par 9) ~ 
ticular population explosion and its overconsumption of the 
— 
world’s resources. 
+ 
White, Lynn. ‘Historical Roots of our Ecological Crisis,” 
ries 
Horizon Summer 1967. Reprinted in Shepard and McKinley, 
Subversive Science; in Sierra Club Annual 1966-1968; and in 
— 
Science 1967, pp. 1203-7. 
: 
A classic article, very culture-oriented, stressing the contri- 
butions of Christianity and modern technology. 
Bio. 
D. What Can We Do? Give Up and Enjoy Life While It Lasts? 
There is a great temptation to do the latter, and many people, in 
a state of extreme pessimism, are inclined to do just that. The most. — 
cogent argument against this alternative is that it automatically 
a 
generates a self-fulfilling prediction: The forces are already at work 
to such an extent that, if we do nothing, all but the simplest life 
= 
forms will surely perish. 
a 
The objective in this section is to get us into some possibilities fore 
new life styles, new modes of action and thought, and some old 
ones which need reviving. As for environmental defense/survival 
= 
action, one does not read about this in handbooks—one acts!. 
Borgese! Elizabeth Mann. The Ocean Regime. A suggested statute 
for the peaceful uses of the high seas and the sea-bed beyond the — 
limits of national jurisdiction. Center for the Study of 
ae 
Democratic Institutions Occasional Paper 1968. See also 
a 
E. Borgese, ‘The Republic of the Seas,” Center Magazine 
1-4, May 1968. 
“ae 
Boulding, Kenneth. ‘’The Economics of the Coming Spaceship _ be: 
Earth.” in Jarrett, Environmental Quality ina Growing 
Economy. 
‘ 
P 
This essay will probably meet the same fate as many of the 
author’s—neglect. Yet there is some powerful theoretical 
support here for the minimum consumption heresy. 
___ 
“Economics and Ecology,” in Darling and 
p 
Milton, Future Environment of North America. 
er 
An article like this should be the basis for radical revision of = 
the discipline of economics. 
Brooklyn Botanic Garden Record. Handbook on Biological Control — 
of Plant Pests. New York, 1960. 
ee 
A pamphlet ($1.00)—notable evidence that not every Establish- 
ment agency is hung up on biocides. 
; 
s 
eve 
California Tomorrow. Cry California Summer 1969. 
Entire issue devoted to biocides, including much attention to 
individual action. A homeowner/gardener’s essential handbook. 
50¢ per copy from 681 Market, San Francisco, 94105. 
Campbell, Joseph. Hero of a Thousand Faces. 
3 
Campbell probably has a wider range of knowledge of the as 
mythologies and religions of the world than any other 
‘3 
individual. This book tells of 
atheme which Campbell” 
finds in all major and minor religions, the theme of the 
wanderings and return of the hero. The moral of this ubiquitous — 
story is that man is only one of the phenomena of nature and 
that he must find his place in the cycle of birth and death. 
It 
ie 
is this story which has held the ecologically destructive 
is 
impulses of primitive men in check. 
i 
Carlin, A. ‘“The Grand Canyon Controversy: 
Lessons for Federal ia 
Cost-Benefit Practices,” Land Economics May 1968. (HD101/— 
2 
> 
J6; SS, Ag, Ed) 
> 
A review and critique of current resource evaluation procedures. — 
Benefit-cost analysis isn’t all that bad—it’s just that it’s so 
fi 
politically malleable. 
‘i 
< 
‘ 
! 
Pe 
I 
i NJ 
ri 
: Soa 
= ae 
si _ 
