The Case Against The Global Economy. Jerry 
Mander and Edward Goldsmith, eds. 1996; 
560 pp. $16. Sierra Club Books. For The 
Common Good: Redirecting the Economy 
Toward Community, the Environment, and a 
Sustainable Future. Herman E. Daly and John 
B. Cobb, Jr. 2nd edition, 1994; 534 pp. $18. 
Beacon Press. The End of Work: The Decline 
of the Global Labor Force and the Dawn of 
the Post-Market Era. Jeremy Rifkin. 1995; 350 
pp. $15.95. G.P. Putnam’s Sons. 
AG AINSI 
THE 
GLOB:! 
IFG News. $25 membership includes twice- 
yearly newsletter. International Forum on 
Globalization, 1555 Pacific Avenue, San 
Francisco, 
CA 
94109, 
415/771-3394, 
www.ifg.org. Finance & Development. Free 
(quarterly). 
International 
Development 
Fund and The World Bank, 700 19th Street, 
NW, Washington, DC 20431, 202/623-8300, 
www.worldbank.org/fandd. The Economist. 
$125/year 
(51 issues). 
PO Box 58524, 
Boulder, CO 80322-8524, 303/604-1464, 
www.economist.com. 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
by JERRY MANDER 
Congratulations to Whole 
Earth for surviving so long, 
for turning away from techno- 
topian visions, and for returning 
to community, ecological sus- 
tainability, individual empower- 
ment. It is truly a revolutionary 
act when people or institutions 
are able to say, “My God, we’re out 
on the wrong limb here; we are not heading 
where we meant to; let’s get grounded.” 
And as we attempt to reground—which is to 
say, reconnect with an Earth-based reality 
that is not virtual—we all need to sweep 
around in the corners of our consciousness 
to examine some basic assumptions. The one 
I’m most interested in changing has to do 
with the issue of “empowerment,” specifical- 
ly the idea that the computer revolution con- 
tributes to it. | think the opposite is the case: 
computers are disempowering us, and our 
causes, and are leading to the highest 
degree of corporate-controlled centralization 
in history. Computers, the global information 
networks, 
and the 
“information 
society” 
empower 
them, not us. 
You have no new mail. 
You have no friends 
You have no life. 
The comput- 
er revolution 
is a weird 
one since both sides seem to agree about it. 
They all think it’s great. The corporations and 
the activists, the engineers and the artists, 
’ the Al Gores and the Newt Gingriches, the 
conservatives and the liberals all outdo 
themselves to articulate utopian visions of a 
computer-based society. Does that make you 
uneasy? Is Newt Gingrich’s utopia the same 
as yours? In any case, shouldn’t we have 
learned by now to be wary of any “revolu- 
tion” led by corporations and vice presi- 
dents? 
Even my own friends tend to side with the 
computers-bring-you-power argument. “You 
miss the point,” they tell me. “Computers 
can help us communicate with like-minded 
types; we can get better organized against 
those big corporations. We can reach people 
all over the planet, and use email to mobilize.” 
Some of my friends quote Kevin Kelly, former- 
ly of Whole Earth and now of Wired. He 
argues that the computer revolution created 
a new political structure on the planet. The 
symbol of today should no longer be the 
atom, he has written, now it’s the web, or the 
net. According to his view, the political center 
has been wiped out and an entirely new web 
structure “elevates the power of the small 
player,” while promoting heterogeneity anda 
new kind of pure democracy where we can be 
INTERNET: 
THE ILLUSION OF EMPOWERMENT 
DUSAN 
PETRICIC 
equal players in the global information 
game. Also, it brings on a new “incipient 
technospiritualism.” 
Kevin’s right on the last point: technospiritu- 
alism, though | favor the older kind that 
doesn’t require mediation by machines. As 
for the idea that the old political center has 
been wiped out by our PCs and email, and 
that web politics has brought us a computer- 
enhanced democracy, let me ask this: 
Shouldn’t we call it “virtual democracy”? | 
think so. Because somebody forgot to tell 
the transnational corporations in Tokyo, New 
York, Brussels, and Geneva that the real 
power was no longer in the center, that it 
was now out of their control. Two hundred 
corporations now control twenty-eight per- 
cent of global economic activity; twenty-four 
corporations are among the hundred largest 
economies of the world, far larger than many 
countries. The computer has had a crucial 
role to play in this, as have the big new glob- 
al trade agreements, which have deregulated 
all controls on international banking, invest- 
ment, and capital movement. Corporations 
are now free to use the new global technolo- 
gies to move their assets around the world, 
instantaneously, at the touch of a key, with- 
out the ability of nation-states to observe, 
control, or slow them down. 
Some people understand this, notably 
among the right wing. Dr. Joe Cobb of the 
Heritage Foundation once told me that 
because of 
technology, corporate-led global- 
ization is “inevitable.” It can’t be stopped 
(presumably because technology itself 
“can’t be stopped,” yet one more paradigm 
worth examining). 
So, what kind of revolution do we have here? 
To use terms like “empowerment” to summa- 
rize the effects of computers is to badly mis- 
represent what power is about in a real political 
Jerry Mander knows best how to stir things up and change mass thinking. He is a Senior Fellow at the Public Media Center, which runs full-page ads and creates media 
packets for groups with good causes. He's program director of the Foundation for Deep Ecology and acting chair of the International Forum on Globalization. His books 
have made a difference: Four Arguments for the Elimination of Television (which first appeared in our magazine), In The Absence of the Sacred: The Failure of 
Technology and the Survival of Indian Nations, and The Case Against the Global Economy (co-edited with Edward Goldsmith). Jerry's on our editorial board. 
and economic context. Computers may 
help individuals feel powerful or compe- 
tent and surely they are useful; nobody 
denies this. But this does nothing what- 
ever to balance the ultimate drift of the 
technology, to help gather staggering 
new power in the hands of giant corpo- 
rations, banks, and global trade 
bureaucracies, all made possible by 
these same instruments. 
In my view, computer technology will eventu- 
ally be understood by all of us, as it already is 
by the right wing, as the greatest centralizing 
technology ever invented. For while we sit 
happily at our PCs editing our copy, sending 
our emails, designing our little web pages, 
transnational corporations are using their 
global networks twenty-four hours a day, at a 
scale and a speed that makes our level of 
empowerment seem pathetic by comparison. 
The giant transnationals of today simply could 
not exist without the global computer net- 
works. When they push their computer keys, 
they cause hundreds of billions of dollars in 
resources to move from, say, a bank in Geneva 
to Sarawak, resulting in a forest cut down. Or 
else they push a key and buy billions of dol- 
lars of a national currency, only to sell it again 
a few hours later, leaving countries’ 
economies in shambles, and populations dev- 
astated. That is information with power. 
Information by itself is for the disempowered; 
and the Internet is our opiate. . 
The question we have to learn to ask about 
new technology is not whether it benefits us, 
but whom does it benefit most? For despite its 
usefulness to us in many activities, the elec- 
tronic revolution has far more to offer the 
largest enterprises on the planet than it does 
to you and me; we suffer a net loss from its 
emergence as the new global nervous system. 
eye 
; 
(Open Connection... 0) 
f 
rn 
ae 
= 
Please enter the password for 
forgotten@amnesia.com 
Password: 
If you want to use your computers for your 
various good works, okay. But please keep in 
the forefront of your minds who else is using 
this wonderful “decentralizing” instrument, to 
what ends and with what results. And let’s 
stop calling them empowering. °° 
