WE ARE AS CGOOS 
by STEWART BRAND, FOUNOER 
Thirty years ago, Stewart and a handful of helpers compiled the first Whole Earth Catalog. Stewart tells the story of the 1968 Catalog and other early his- 
tory on our web site (www.wholeearthmag.com) and on page 439 of the Last Whole Earth Catalog. After a few years, Stewart kept trying to let the 
Catalog die in order not to perpetuate an idea beyond its authentic vivid liveliness. But it wouldn't stay down—Last Whole Earth Catalogs and Whole Earth 
Epilogs and other permutations bobbed back up. The Last Whole Earth Catalog was awarded the National Book Award (1972). Stewart started the 
CoEvolution Quarterly as a supplement to the Catalog, originally with articles from the technical literature that he felt should have wider circulation. The 
Gaia Hypothesis was one such (see winter, 1998 issue, p. 4). Stewart co-founded the computer conferencing system known as the WELL and the annual 
Hacker's Conference. CoEv evolved into the Whole Earth Review when it combined with the short-lived Whole Earth Software Review. Even after Stewart left 
as editor (1985), his publication patterning and attitudes (e.g, only review good stuff, let the bad fade) guided the Catalogs and magazine. 
Though readers steadfastly refuse to allow Stewart his independence after seventeen years of editing Whole Earth (I'm always asked: “Is Stewart still editor?"), he has been thor- 
oughly independent, writing The Media Lab: Inventing the Future at MIT (1987) and his well-regarded book, How Buildings Learn (1994). He also co-founded and is managing director of the 
Global Business Network, a consulting firm specializing in scenarios for the future. That doesn’t mean that he isn't “family” or part of that indefinable presence called the Whole Earth commu- 
nity. Many of GBN's Network members overlap with Whole Earth writers/contributors. Stewart kindly showed up at the Marin Community Foundation to help us say: thirty years in Marin 
County is enough to be considered part of local cultural heritage and worthy of local philanthropic support. He's enthusiastic about getting Whole Earth's library out of containers and available 
to the public. He allows us to pirate book choices from his GBN selections. 
Stewart has just finished a new book on time and is co-founder of the Long Now Project to make a 10,000 year clock (winter issue, p. 3). He's refurbished Mirene, his Columbia River tugboat, 
so that it can cruise the Bay, and he keeps in shape with a veteran's group that treks and exercises near Mt. Tamalpais. He's definitely been my educational mentor, asking, like all great teachers, 
specific and directed questions that need attention but seem buried in the subconscious—until asked. While my talents reside in scouting nature, Stewart's genius is as a great scout of culture 
and history. His keen senses hunt down the most interesting experiments, ideas (and their spokespeople) and celebrations. | always check out the tools on his belt and his current mind-tools for 
building robust and resilient deeper structures. Along the way, his tool kits have changed America in ways from which it cannot go back. — Peter Warshall 
As unexpected and ungrammatical as 
a clap of thunder on a sunny day was 
the opening line of that first Whole 
Earth Catalog in 1968: 
“We are as gods and might as well get 
good at it.” 
Credit where it’s due: | stole the line. Page one, 
chapter one of A Runaway World? by British 
anthropologist Edmund Leach (Oxford, 1968) 
begins: 
Men have become like gods. Isn’t it about time 
that we understood our divinity? Science offers 
us total mastery over our environment and 
over our destiny, yet instead of rejoicing we 
feel deeply afraid. Why should this be? How 
might these fears be resolved? 
Leach’s book was based on his 1967 Reith Lectures 
broadcast on the BBC. With their bold optimism, 
the lectures were highly popular and also fero- 
ciously criticized in academe and the press. Alistair 
Cooke predicted in the Chicago Sun-Times, “Leach 
has suddenly come roaring up in England and no 
doubt will soon explode here, as middle-aged hero 
of the rebel young.” So far as | know, | was the only 
rebel youngster (then age 30) to respond, but my 
rebroadcast of Leach’s line did have a certain 
explosive effect. The Whole Earth Catalog also bor- 
rowed some of Leach’s attitude, evident in para- 
graphs of his such as: 
By participating in history instead of standing by 
to watch we shall at least be able to enjoy the pre- 
sent. The cult of scientific detachment and the 
orderly fragmented way of living that goes with it, 
serve only to isolate the human individual from his 
environment and from his neighbors—they reduce 
him to a lonely, impotent and terrified observer of 
a runaway world. A more positive attitude to 
change will not mean that you will always feel 
‘secure, it will just give you a sense of purpose. You 
should read your Homer. Gods who manipulate the 
course of destiny are no more likely to achieve 
their private ambitions than are men who suffer the 
slings and arrows of outrageous fortune; but gods 
have much more fun! 
Where the Whole Earth Catalog diverged from 
Leach’s admirable program was in an area which 
iil Student Stewart Brand (1960s) 
scopes out a California grass 
still distinguishes America from England and 
Europe. Leach wrote, “We simply must take charge 
of our own fate. We must somehow see to it that 
the decisions which have long-term consequences 
are taken by men who understand what they are 
doing and not by bewildered amateurs.” By con- 
trast, the rest of Whole Earth’s purpose statement 
went: “So far, remotely done power and glory—as 
via government, big business, formal education, 
church—has succeeded to the point where gross 
defects obscure actual gains. In response to this 
dilemma and to these gains a realm of intimate, 
personal power is developing 
— power of the indi- 
vidual to conduct his own education, find his own 
inspiration, shape his own environment, and share 
his adventure with whoever is interested.” 
In other words, Whole Earth embraced the ama- 
teurs rather than deplored them. We rewrote 
Leach’s line to: “We must somehow see to it that 
the decisions which have long-term consequences 
are taken by amateurs who understand what they 
are doing.” 
It was the shift from hierarchy to heterarchy, which 
is still in progress worldwide. (“Heterarchy” was 
coined by early cybernetician Warren McCulloch at 
MIT to designate networked structures in which 
the center of control constantly moves to wherever 
is most relevant and useful; he was thinking of 
brain function.) At a time when the New Left was 
calling for grass-roots political (i.e referred) power, 
Whole Earth eschewed politics and pushed grass- 
roots direct power—tools and skills. At a time 
when New Age hippies were deploring the intellec- 
tual world of arid abstractions, Whole Earth 
pushed science, intellectual endeavor, and new 
technology as well as old. As a result, when the 
most empowering tool of the century came along— 
personal computers (resisted by the New Left and 
despised by the New Age) —Whole 
Earth was in 
the thick of the development from the beginning. 
So far as | can tell, the 1968 Whole Earth 
Catalog was the first example of 
desktop publishing. The break- 
through tool was the IBM 
Selectric Composer—a 
fancy electric typewriter 
with a replaceable 
“solf ball” instead of individual 
keys striking the paper. The many type fonts 
and sizes you see in this replica of the ‘68 Catalog 
are how many “golf balls” we had. Typesetting was 
instant and cheap. The other revolutionary tool 
was a Polaroid MP-3 camera, which allowed us to 
copy line shots directly from books and to make 
halftones which could be pasted right onto the 
layout sheets. Handling graphics was instant 
and cheap. 
We were as publishers and 
tried to get good at it. CO 
IBM Selectric “golf balls.” 
