: 
FROM 
WITNESS 
OUTSIO€ THE 
YUPPIE Z 
by vine deLORiIA, JR. 
Vine Deloria's intellect must be digested by every North American with an interest in ond ey 
clawcand 
gions. Spark of the American Indian renaissance, he flamed its flames with books like Custer Died for Your Sinsand - 
Red Earth, White Lies. | can think of no scholar with a more engaged and bracing mind. He's the Former Executive 
Director of the National Congress of American Indians and a long-time rights advocate. His works are always war cries 
for a reasonable sense of perspective. 
Recently, after a hiatus of more than seventy years, the Makah Indians 
were authorized by the International Whaling Commission to hunt the 
grey whales with a maximum limit of five whales of a total estimated 
population of some 22,000 grey whales in the oceans. Refrigeration 
limits them to one whale. No sooner had the tribe announced its 
intention to proceed with the hunt than a bevy of animal rights activists 
and environmentalists declared that they would do everything they 
could to prevent this activity. Whaling had been the traditional practice 
of the Makahs and they have an elaborate ceremonial procedure to 
qualify people to go on these hunts. So the tribe began training people 
to handle the old canoes, familiarize themselves with the old harpoons, 
and learn the songs that had to be used to honor the whale during this 
ritual. A confrontation is expected at any time between the small tribe of 
Indians and the animal rights activists. 
Several years ago the Inter-tribal Bison Cooperative, a coalition of some 
thirty-nine tribes, appalled at the needless slaughter of buffalo who had 
wandered outside the confines of their pasture at Yellowstone National 
Park, sought permission to take the surplus buffalo and move them to 
the various reservation buffalo pastures. This offer provoked cries of 
outrage by animal rights people who complained that the Indians would 
eventually shoot and eat these creatures and the adoption plan fell 
through. It seems as though each time the Indians try to regain the 
intimate relationship they once had with tribal animals, political correct- 
ness in some bizarre form comes charging into the situation. Yet it is 
also politically correct to envy the Indian relationship with nature and to 
dress up in Indian-style clothing and wander into the wilderness. What’s 
wrong here? 
About six years ago we had a rash of tourists in Rapid City, South Dakota 
being bitten by rattlesnakes at state campgrounds. It seems that they did 
not regard the snake as dangerous. Each year we have several incidents 
in western parks involving visitors frolicking or picnicking with local bears 
much to their discomfort when they discover that the bears are in fact 
hungry and aggressive. Rangers in Wind Cave National Monument have 
to be especially alert to prevent tourists from wandering into the buffalo 
herd to take pictures. People seem to be of the opinion that the animals 
that are humanized on television should immediately strike up a personal 
by JOANNE KUYGER, 1974 
and suffering, and crafted with deft elegance. 
Red Earth, White Lies: Native Americans and the Myth of Scientific Fact. Vine Deloria, Jr. 1997; 271 pp. $16.95. Fulcrum Publishing, 350 Indiana Street, Suite 350, Golden, CO 
80401, 303/277-1623. King Solomon's Ring: New Light on Animal Ways. Konrad Z. Lorenz. 1952; 202 pp. $10.95. Penguin. Anima Mundi (video). Directed by Godfrey Reggio with 
music by Phillip Glass. 1986; 30 minutes. $14.98 ($18.98 postpaid). Miramar, 200 Second Avenue W., Seattle, WA 98119, 202/284-4700. Care of the Wild Feathered and Furred. 
Mae Hickman and Maxine Guy. 2nd edition, 1998; 143 pp. $15.95. Michael Kesend Publishing, Ltd., 1025 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10028, 212/249-5150. Heart and Blood: 
Living with Deer in America. Richard Nelson. 1997; 416 pp. $14. Alfred A. Knopf. Dawn of Art: The Chauvet Cave. Jean-Marie Chauvet, Eliette Brunel Deschamps and 
Christian Hillaire. 1996; 136 pp. $39.95. Harry N. Abrams, 100 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10011, 212/206-7715. Witness: Endangered Species of North America. Susan 
Middleton and David Liitschwager. 1994; 256 pp. $50. Chronicle Books. Just Space: Poems 1979-1989. Joanne Kyger with illustrations by Arthur Okamura. 1991; 142 pp. 
$12.50. Black Sparrow Press, 24 10th Street, Santa Rosa, CA 95401, 707/579-4011, www.blacksparrowpress.com. 
OESTRUCTION 
Joanne Kyger has been an editor of her town’s newspaper, the Hearsay News, for over a quarter-century. She teaches (taught 
me) journal writing and poetics—both locally and at the Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics (Naropa Insitute)—espe- 
cially how to give everyday life its proper due. Her poetry books are funny, lyric, leaping, exquisitely attentive to daily frustrations 
oe 
ma Top thode pices 
a 
Makah, with whaling 
canoe, harpoon shaft, 
and sealskin floats 
relationship with them when encountered in the wild. Thus, the belief 
that Yellowstone bears are a western version of Gentle Ben is creating a 
hazardous situation for wildlife because they are the ones killed when a 
tourist is injured or frightened. 
Modern people do no know what wilderness is, they are pretty oblivious 
to the fact that wild animals are still around and trying to survive in 
increasingly reduced habitats, and they appear to see the world as a 
special zoo created for their entertainment. Some kind of reality therapy 
is in order. While we treat the natural world as our plaything, it really 
does have an existence and values in and of itself. The natural world is 
not a yuppie zoo obedient to our wishes and fantasies. We have to give 
this world and its natural inhabitants some respect. 
The Indians long ago devised ceremonies and rituals through which they 
ensured an intimate relationship with animals. Using songs, sacrifices, 
and religious practices, they became close to these creatures and 
learned the proper ways to deal with them. We learned from these ani- 
mals, we did not expect them to act like us. Almost every piece of cloth- 
ing or design featured these animals and special dances were done for 
them. We praised and sang to these animal peoples and they allowed us 
to hunt them for food. 
Today there is widespread slaughter of many kinds of animals without 
ceremony, without honor, just simply a harvest. The number of whales, 
bears, and buffalo taken by Indians these days is minuscule compared to 
the commercial take. Yet animal rights activists, and white hunters and 
fishers, without any songs or honors, spend their time harassing Indians 
about various species, raising hardly a murmur against the real killers of 
these creatures. Enough is enough. Somebody needs to get a sense of 
proportion here. On reservations where tribes are raising these wild ani- 
mals, their numbers are increasing—and they are living better lives and 
enjoying the attention lavished on them. They teach us many things that 
animal rights activists do not know. For their sake and our sake, we need 
to be able to continue the relationship. Enough is enough. co 
First of all do you remember the way a bear goes through 
a cabin when nobody is home? He goes through 
the front door. | mean he really goes through it. Then 
he takes the cupboard off the wall and eats a can of lard. 
He eats all the apples, limes, dates, bottled decaffinated 
coffee, and 35 pounds of granola. The asparagus soup cans 
fall to the floor. Yum! He chomps up Norwegian crackers 
stashed for the winter. And the bouillon, salt, pepper, 
paprika, garlic, onions, potatoes. 
He rips the Green Tara 
poster from the wall. Tries the Coleman Mustard. Spills 
the ink, tracks in the flour. Goes up stairs and takes 
a shit. Rips open the water bed, eats the incense and 
drinks the perfume. Knocks over the Japanese tansu 
and the Persian miniature of a man on horseback watching 
a woman bathing. 
Knocks Shelter, Whole Earth Catalog, 
Planet Drum, Northern Mists, Truck Tracks, and 
Women's Sports into the oozing water bed mess. 
He goes 
down stairs and out the back wall. He keeps on going 
for a long way and finds a good cave to sleep it all off. 
Luckily he ate the whole medicine cabinet, including stash 
of LSD, peyote, Psilocybin, Amanita, Benzedrine, Valium 
and aspirin. co 
CARE *% WILD 
FEATHERED 
| 
| AND ed 
tt 
p 
