. |e? 
iF 
20 
MAKING 
| 
7 
Top: Lee Valley's “Cheney Nailer.” 
Middle: The first hammer ever 
patented (1845) The Art of Fine 
Tools. From the collection of Bud 
Steere. Bottom Stick Bundle by 
Chris Drury. Photograph by lan 
Cameron from Chris Drury: Found 
Moments in Time and Space pub- 
lished by Harry N. Abrams Inc. 
« 
Cameron Books 
ART 
OF 
THE 
The Art of Fine Tools Sandor 
Nagyszalanczy. 1998; 232 pp. $37. 
Taunton. Lark Books Crafts Books 
Catalog Lark Books, 50 College 
Street, Asheville, NC 28801, 
704/ 253-0467, ww.larkbooks.com. 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
by J. BALOQWIN 
Always curious (and possibly wacko), 
| kept track of how many times | deployed 
my trusty Victorinox Champion Swiss 
Army® knife last year. Two-thousand-and- 
eight. That means it has helped to solve 
about twenty-six thousand little problems 
since | hired it in 1985. Yet there have been at least as many times | 
cursed its liver for not having the blade needed for the job at hand. 
People have always hungered to correct pesky failures, to imple- 
ment their inspiration, to physically flaunt their know-how. Is it possible 
to make a Swiss Army Knife or other tool that can handle any likely 
situation? We’re talking augmented physical capability here, and it’s 
certainly a desirable and even enticing goal for many folk—witness the 
rising tide of all-purpose belt-sheathed tools flooding the market these 
days. (All are OK. None are entirely satisfactory, nor can they be.) 
Computers also qualify as design tools. With a CAD (Computer 
Assisted Design) program, for instance, a computer can help the 
designer by depicting size, shape, and color in easily editable form. 
Iterative versions can be tried quickly and affordably. CAD eases tire- 
some chores by calculating and displaying stress and Strain, costs, pro- 
duction schedules, for each new version. Widely separated designers 
can work together online. 
But electronic tools of analysis and simulation can merely display 
attributes. Heft, drape, scale, tactility, and wieldliness can only be inti- 
mately assessed by engaging a real object. You can’t sit, much less get 
comfortable, in a virtual chair, however nifty it looks onscreen. 
In fact, computer representations can mislead—and frequently do. 
Two-or three-dimensional CAD renderings can neither predict nor project 
complex and often subtle interactions with the actual world. They can 
help refine an idea, but they cannot innovate or identify opportunities 
for synergetic advantage. Intriguing and essential design nuances 
in computerized representations tend to be reduced to this-or-that 
choices—abdicating the exactly-right-size and mysteriously exquisite 
contours that remain unrealized in the artist/artisan’s intuitive mind. 
' 
Nothing simulated can equal the thrill of taking a design concept 
from napkin-sketch to physical viability. Even the most electronically 
sophisticated thing-making corporations have discovered the advantage 
in moving from keyboard-and-screen to the shop floor as soon as 
possible. Artists and hand-crafters already know why; they’ve always 
been there. 
A CRAFTERS MANIFESTO 
Human handling and manipulating of materials and the tools that 
work them, as well as making and testing your own prototypes, ensures 
that nothing gets lost or diluted in the translation from thought to thing. 
Know-how, and the equally essential know-who, are born and bred at 
the metaphorical workbench and coffeepot, then spread through trade 
journals and the Internet. 
Human inventions and capability (for both good and ill—as always) 
are increasing at a furious pace. Managing this torrent in a way that 
avoids serious insult to society and the rest of nature is proving to be 
difficult. As awareness of the effects of our actions sharpens, we must 
now ask an uncomfortable question: can any art or craft be truly worth- 
while and wonderful if it engenders an environmental mess and ruined 
lives elsewhere? 
Buckminster Fuller noted that “Good hardware is one of the few 
irrefutable proofs of clear thought.” (Today, he might have included soft- 
ware.) But how much is too much? And the toughest question: should 
we be doing this at all? 
THE ULTIMATE SWISS OMNI KNIFE 
EB 
1, 
Py 
MALCOLM 
WELLS. 
ES 
|. Baldwin is Whole Earth's heart, its sense of legacy, its hand-tool expert, an inspiration to students of design, a conversational and impeccable reviewer on 
myriad topics, a carrier of Buckminster Fuller's wisdom (see access for his Bucky Works, p. 62 in 1968 Catalog), and a superb model for how to live simply with 
a super-rich mind. Recently, he’s been working with Rocky Mountain Institute on their pioneering work on electric cars. 
“We were put on earth to make things.” —-WH. Auden 
If the answer to ‘should we?’ is yes, then we need to proceed using 
the least resources over the lifetime of the product. The same making- 
things-right principles that apply to industry apply to art, personal do- 
it-yourself projects, and even to repairs. Fuller also recommended that 
we consider our proposals comprehensively, anticipating the long future 
in all we do, always integrating our know-how with good science and 
deep wisdom. 
You might think that this is obvious, but apparently it isn’t. Had 
thousands of computer programmers and designers comprehensively 
anticipated the future, we wouldn’t have those pesky and fearsome 
prognostications of Y2K disaster coming at us. Comprehensive thinkers 
attend the connections. 
The same narrow-focused designers also missed or ignored the 
enormous environmental costs of computer-making: a single chip 
presently involves (among other things) about twenty-five pounds of 
assorted chemicals, nine pounds of toxic waste, and the pollution of 
2,000 gallons of water. 
Electronic tools evolve very quickly to become ever more useful. 
Hand tools evolve more slowly, but evolve they do, as experience 
continues to accumulate. Hammers don’t go obsolete yearly, but they 
are undergoing further refinement, spurred by a new understanding 
of ergonomics and the need to reduce crippling “carpenter’s elbow.” 
Burgeoning interest in handcrafts is even bringing back forgotten 
oldies-but-goodies such as the “Cheney Nailer” (from Lee Valley, 
800/871-8158), with a grooved, magnetized head that holds nails in 
place for one-handed pounding (see illustration). 
ARE CRAFTS THE ANSWER TO OIQERITIS? 
Specialty tool catalogs are getting fatter by the month. Model- 
making, jewelry, weaving, gardening, auto restoration, wood-and metal- 
working—just about any handiwork you can name—have their own tools 
and catalogs, made all the more fascinating by matching catalogs of 
materials, components, and supplies. See, for instance, the implements 
of surgery and dentistry offered to model makers, antique-restorers, and 
electronic experimenters. 
The astonishing number of tool catalogs available since the first 
Whole Earth Catalog is proof that the rise of virtual tools has ignited a 
similar boom in analog action. If they were added together, you couldn’t 
haul the Noah’s Ark of craft tools and small machinery in a fleet of forty- 
ton eighteen-wheelers, much less on your belt or loose in a flimsy pocket. 
You can, however, easily haul know-how, know-who, and the ever- 
easier, more precise know-where-to-get-it. Besides your head and hands, 
the most useful all-purpose belt tool is the one that most closely matches 
the normal negotiations of your everyday life. | have several. One of them 
is custom-made (by my tool-savwvy goldsmith wife, Liz) for my role as land 
steward. There is no snakebite kit included these days; ranchers have 
found that the best antidote is a (belt-mounted) cell phone. 
Our “Highly Evolved Toolbox” prototype-shop-in-a-truck is really 
just a belt tool writ large. Like belt tools (indeed, like all toolkits of any 
size), it has a practical size limitation and is constrained to work within 
its capabilities. 
Nothing new here; ‘twas ever thus: The unlucky “Iceman” recently 
found frozen in the Alps was so equipped—thousands of years ago. 
Perhaps he just lost or broke something critical. Or maybe, in a fit of 
hubris inspired by his tool-augmented powers, he was the first to 
venture into alpine territory, realizing too late that newfound capability 
without wisdom is not sufficient. Like a young rabbit that doesn’t realize 
there are Great Horned Owls until it feels the fatal talons clench its back, 
| doubt that we are any less vulnerable. co 
