WILOERNESS & CIVILIZATION 
The Practice of the Wild. Gary Snyder. 
1990; 190 pp. $11. North Point Press. Turtle 
Istand. Gary Snyder. 1974; 114 pp. $8.95. 
W. W. Norton. 
with “FOUR CHANGES” 
PULITZER PRIZE 
for POETRY 1975 
Walden 
and 
Essay. 
on 
Civil 
Disobedience. 
Henry 
David Thoreau. 
1854; 253 Pp. 7-95. Princeton University 
Press. 
Wild 
Earth. 
Dave 
Foreman, 
Publisher. $25/year (quarterly). PO Box 
455, Richmond, VT 05477, 802/434- 
4077. A Sand County Almanac. Aldo 
Leopold. 1949; 295 pp. $6.99. Ballantine 
Books. The Diversity of Life. Edward O. 
Wilson. 1992; 424 pp. $14.95. W. W. 
Norton. 
HENRY DAVID 
THORE 
q 
SAY ON 
LDEN-BS' 5 
i 
4 
att ‘DISOBEDIENCE 
LE EARTH WINTER 1998 
by Gary SNYoER 
| must confess I’m getting a bit grumpy about the dumb arguments 
being put forth by high-paid intellectual types in which they are trying to 
knock Nature, knock the people who value Nature, and still come out 
smelling smart and progressive. 
The idea of Nature as being a “social construction” 
—a shared cultural 
projection seen and shaped in the light of social values and priorities 
—if 
carried out to the full bright light of philosophy, would look like a subset 
of the world view best developed in Mahayana Buddhism or Advaita 
Vedanta, which declares (as 
just one part of its strategy) 
the universe to be maya, or 
illusion. In doing so the 
Asian philosophers are not 
saying that the universe is 
ontologically without some 
kind of reality. They are 
arguing that, across the 
board, our seeing of the 
world is a biological (based 
on the particular qualities 
of our species’s body-mind), 
psychological (reflecting 
subjective projections), and 
cultural construction. And they go on to suggest how to examine 
one’s own Seeing so as to see the one who sees, and thus make 
seeing more accurate. 
The current use of the “social construction” terminology, however, can- 
not go deeper, because it is based on the logic of European science and 
the “enlightenment.” This thought-pod, in pursuing some new kind of 
meta-narrative, has failed to cop to its own story—which is the same old 
occidental view of Nature as a realm of resources that has been handed 
over to humanity for its own use. As a Spiritually (politically) fallen 
realm, this socially constructed nature finally has no reality other than 
the quantification provided by economists and resource managers. This 
is indeed the ultimate commodification of Nature, done by supposedly 
advanced theorists, who prove to be simply the high end of the “wise 
use” movement. Deconstruction, done with a compassionate heart 
and the intention of gaining wisdom, becomes the Mahayana Buddhist 
logical and philosophical exercise which plumbs to the bottom of 
deconstructing and comes back with compassion for all beings. 
Deconstruction without compassion is self-aggrandizement. 
So we understand the point about wilderness being in one sense a cul- 
tural construct, and what isn’t? What’s more to the point, and what | fail 
to find in the writings of the anti-wilderness crowd, is the awareness 
that we are not into saving relatively uninhabited wild landscapes for 
the purpose of recreation or spirituality even, but to preserve home- 
space for non-human beings. And that this preservation of diversity 
is essential to planetary ecological, spiritual, and evolutionary health 
for all. 
Some of these writers set up, and then attack, the notion of “pristine 
wilderness,” and this again is beating a dead horse. It’s well known that 
humans and proto-humans have lived virtually everywhere for hundreds 
of millennia. “Pristine” is only a relative term. But humanly-used as the 
landscape may have been, up until about ninety years ago the planet 
still had huge territories of wild terrain, which now are woefully shrunk- 
en. Much of the wild land was also the territory of indigenous cultures 
that fit well into what were inhabited wildernesses. 
The attacks on Nature and wilderness from the ivory towers come at 
the right time to bolster the global developers, the resurgent timber 
companies (here in California, the Charles Hurwitz suits at Pacific 
Lumber), and those who would trash the Endangered Species Act. It 
looks like an unholy alliance of Capitalist Materialists and Marxist 
idealists in an attack on the rural world that Marx reputedly found 
idiotic and boring. Yikes! 
NATURE AS SEEN FROM KITKITDIZZ 
IS No “SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION” 
Gary Snyder needs no introduction. Old friend of Whole Earth (he's on our editorial board); generous and stalwart bard in the legacy of Ezra Pound, Chinese and Japanese poetics, and oral 
story-telling, and speaker for bioregions, wilderness, wildness and Buddhist practice. This piece was written from Kitkitdizze (his home, named for its totemic plant) and first published in Wild 
Earth (see access). Recent academics have claimed terms are just sounds that humans provide with arbitrary meanings. So “wilderness” is not actual. Gary responds. 
Heraclitus, the Stoics, the Buddhists, scientists, and your average alert 
older person all know that everything in this world is ephemeral and 
unpredictable. Even the earlier ecologists who worked with Clementsian 
succession theory knew this! Yet now a generation of resource biolo- 
gists, inspired by the thin milk of Daniel Botkin’s theorizing, are promot- 
ing what they think is a new paradigm that relegates the concept of 
climax to the dustheap of ideas. Surely none of the earlier scientific 
ecologists ever doubted that disturbances come and go. It looks like 
this particular bit of bullying also comes just in time to support the 
corporate clear-cutters and land developers. 
(Granted blow-downs, bugs, fires, and land- 
slides, communities like the vast northern 
hemisphere trans-Pacific Sequoia Forests 
prior to the ice age lasted in essence for 
several million years.) 
It’s a real pity that the humanities and social sci- 
ences are finding it so difficult to handle the rise 
of “nature” as an intellectually serious territory. 
For all the talk of “the other” in everybody’s the- 
ory these days, when confronted with a genuine 
Other, the non-human realm, the response of 
the come-lately anti-Nature intellectuals is to 
circle the wagons and declare that Nature is 
really part of Culture. Which may be just a strategy to keep the budget 
within their specialties. 
A lot of this rhetoric, if translated into human politics, would be like say- 
ing “Black people are the social construction of whites.” And then they 
might as well say that South Central Los Angeles is a problematic realm 
that has been exaggerated by some white liberals, a realm whose appar- 
ent moral issues are also illusory, and that the real exercise in regard to 
African Americans is a better understanding of how white writers and 
readers made them up. Of course, liberal critical theorists don’t talk this 
way when it comes to fellow human being because they know what kind 
of heat they’d get. In the case of Nature, because they are still under the 
illusion that it isn’t seriously there, they indulge themselves in this 
moral and political shallowness. 
Conservationists and environmentalists have brought some of this on 
themselves. We still have not communicated well on the question of 
“Why value biodiversity?” Many if not most citizens are genuinely con- 
fused over why such importance appears to be placed on hitherto 
unheard-of owls or fish. Scientists have been heard from, but the writers 
and philosophers among us (me too) should speak our deep feelings 
for the value of the non-human with greater clarity. We need to be more 
creative, stay fresh, write clean prose, eschew obscurity, and not inten- 
tionally exaggerate. And we need to comprehend the pain and distress 
of displaced working people everywhere. 
A wilderness is always a specific place, basically there for the local crit- 
ters that live in it. In some cases a few humans will be living in it too. 
Such places are scarce and must be rigorously defended. Wild is the 
process that surrounds us all, self-organizing Nature: creating plant 
zones, humans and their societies, all of it ultimately resilient beyond 
our wildest imagination. Human societies create a variety of dreams, 
notions, and images as to the nature of Nature. But it’s not impossible to 
get a pretty accurate picture of Nature with a little first-hand applica- 
tion—no big deal. I’d say take these dubious professors out for a walk, 
show them a bit of the passing ecosystem show, and maybe get them to 
help clean up a creek. CO 
SI 
FROM PLANET 
OF THE APES 
