State of the World: A Worldwatch Institute 
Report on Progress Toward a Sustainable 
Society. Lester R Brown and Christopher 
Flavin. 1998 (yearly); 251 pp. $13.95. W.W. 
Norton/Worldwatch 
Institute, 
1776 
Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 
20036, 202/452-1999, www.worldwatch.org. 
Vital Signs 1998. Lester 
R. Brown and 
Christopher Flavin. 1998 (yearly); 207 pp. 
$12. W.W. Norton/ Worldwatch 
Institute, 
1776 
Massachusetts 
Avenue, 
NW, 
Washington, 
DC 
20036, 
202/452-1999, 
www.worldwatch.org. The New State of the 
World Atlas. Michael Kidron and Ronald 
Segal. Out of print. 
The Columbian Exchange: Biological and 
Cultural Consequences of 1492. Alfred W. 
Crosby, 
Jr. 
1972; 
268 
pp. 
$13.95. 
Greenwood 
Publishing Group, 88 Post 
Road West, Westport, CT 06881, 203/226- 
3571. The Population 
Bomb. 
Paul 
R. 
Ehrlich. 1968; 211 pp. $25.95 ($30.90 post- 
paid). Buccaneer, PO Box 168, Cutchogue, 
NY 11935, 516/734-5724. Maybe One: A 
Personal and Environmental Argument for 
Single-Child 
Families. 
Bill McKibben. 
1998; 254 pp. $23. Simon & Schuster. 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
The Red Queen told Alice that, in Wonderland, 
you had to run, just in order to stay in the 
same place. This treadmill seems to have 
shifted gears in the three decades since the 
first Whole Earth Catalog, making versatility 
and foresight even more important. 
Extrapolate another three decades ahead, to 
2030, and the gears may have shifted yet again. 
The big problem with speed is that reaction 
time doesn’t increase to match; indeed, it 
doesn’t speed up much at all, except via fore- 
sight. When things speed up, you don’t have 
time to simply feel your way into the new situ- 
ation and do feedback corrections. So antici- 
pation becomes far more important: you now 
need elaborate tentative plans, compared to 
when the pace of change was slower and gen- 
tler, just to be able to choose the right path as 
the fog briefly clears. That means you need a 
spread of plans, an ability to imagine various 
contingencies. 
Foresight is part of a suite of “higher intellec- 
tual functions” (including structured language, 
planning ahead, multistage logical inference, a 
fondness for games with arbitrary rules, and 
music) that evolved sometime in the last five 
million years, since we last shared an ancestor 
with the chimpanzees and bonobos. It made 
ethics possible—but also warfare (the big 
difference between raiding and warfare is 
stockpiling supplies). 
To offer one example: foresight may enable us 
to head off the consequences of potentially 
catastrophic climate change, both that caused 
by industrialization and that which is “natural” 
but threatening to civilization. One of the big 
scientific surprises has been the recent real- 
ization that climate change sometimes speeds 
FROM 
ALICE 
IN 
WONDERLAND 
up. We now know that our ancestors suffered 
from a series of whiplash climate changes over 
the last million years or so, ones so abrupt 
that, within a single generation’s lifetime, it 
was a whole new environment, worldwide. 
Imagine daytime temperatures becoming more 
like nighttime temperatures, even in the trop- 
ics. These abrupt coolings happen, not 
because the sun is flicking like an old fluores- 
cent light tube, but because ocean currents 
rearrange themselves so that the Gulf Stream 
doesn’t warm Europe—and Europe reverts to 
being more Canadian in climate. Europe’s agri- 
culture would no longer be able to feed twen- 
ty-three times as many people as Canada’s, 
and the rest of the world wouldn’t be much 
better off, as such abrupt coolings affect most 
of the inhabited portions of the globe. It takes 
little imagination to picture a series of wars 
over dwindling resources as the human popu- 
lation crashes and our civilization disintegrates. 
Though it’s been 8,000 years since the last 
abrupt cooling, they usually happen every sev- 
eral thousand years, each lasting for centuries 
before an equally abrupt rewarming. Some 
have been associated with instabilities in the 
ice sheets that covered Canada and 
TO MAKE SURE THAT THINGS CO ON 
by WILLIAM H. CALVIN 
Bill Calvin has been a foremost thinker in applying Darwinian principles to the anatomical level of the human organism. His moniker— 
theoretical neurophysiologist—hardly reflects his breadth of scholarship. He writes on climate change, on early methods of predicting 
eclipses, ecology, internal voice generation, intelligence... His most recent book The Cerebral Code: Thinking a Thought in the Mosaics 
of Mind (see access p. 5) discusses, among other things, brain matter as a commons. 
Scandinavia. But it is clear that they can hap- 
pen even in situations like today’s; indeed, our 
gradual global warming could trigger an 
abrupt cooling in several different ways. 
Imagine taking a shower where the water is 
gradually warming up—but then someone 
starts the laundry and the shower turns 
abruptly cold. They don’t balance out. 
A little foresight may well be able to prevent 
the earth’s abrupt coolings, “natural” though 
they have been. While combating global 
warming is obviously high on the agenda, the 
physical principles involved in the abrupt 
rearrangements needed to prevent abrupt 
cooling are very simple. Giant whirlpools in 
the Labrador and Greenland Seas flush cold 
water—that has already given up its heat to 
Canadian air bound for Europe—from the sur- 
face to the ocean depths, thus making way for 
more warm water to flow north. When enough 
of these whirlpools fail, the climate abruptly 
cools. Technological boosters for the whirlpools 
could head off failures. 
Waiting until it starts to happen will be too 
late. The failure has typically occurred in just a 
few years. So clearly it’s a matter of heading it 
off, not handling it on the fly. But can society 
move quickly enough, given its usual slow 
reaction times when building an international 
political consensus is involved? Foresight isn’t 
enough. You also need the initiative to make 
preemptive moves to head off some of the 
developments that foresight warns you about. 
An abrupt cooling won’t be the end of humani- 
ty, but it would kill billions and destroy much 
of what we call civilization. To head off cata- 
strophic backsliding will require some preven- 
tive climate medicine. CO 
GLOBAL 
ANXIETIES 
1. POPULATION GROWTH 
2. WATER/SOIL DEPLETION—FOOOD AND 
FAMINE 
3. SPECIES/HABITAT HOLOCAUST 
4. HUMAN HEALTH: ENVIRONMENTAL 
POISONS, NEW DISEASES 
5. CLIMATE CHANGE 
6. INFRASTRUCTURE COLLAPSE 
7. WARS 
| 
Growth of World 
Population in 
Millions, 1000 CE 
to 2000 CE. 
1500 CE 
265 
425 
1000 CE 
LOU 
BROOKS 
2000 CE 
6300 
FROM THE NEW STATE OF THE WORLD ATLAS. 
