OUT OF LOVE, NOT FEAR 
by doNELLA mendows 
Dana Meadows is as fine a friend as Whole Earth could imagine. Brilliant essays pour from her. Every one we print evokes letters of thanks. She's always 
writing, in between cultivating or canning at the organic farm she shares or teaching students at Dartmouth or organizing the Balaton conferences. Her 
nine books incisively probe at "growth" (for whom, for what, for how long) and modeling, and offer visions of a compassionate alternative 
What’s the difference that might most make a difference for a concern 
close to your heart/mind? How does that difference relate to our teach- 
ings to/relationships with young people? 
Mind-boggling damn Whole Earth kind of question! My mind tried to find 
a foothold in it and slipped off into vastness. So, as every teacher does 
with the real imponderable puzzles, | asked my students—a completely 
nonrandom sample (seniors, environmental studies majors, Dartmouth 
College). 
| asked them specifically what they had been taught that made a differ- 
ence, or what they wish they had been taught that would have made a 
difference. Here are their unexpurgated (except for cleanups of grammar 
and punctuation and spelling —sigh—seniors!) replies. 
66 / think one of the best classes | have taken was Nature 
Writers. We would walk in the woods and write reflections 
(which we would have to self-evaluate). It was neat because 
we actually learned life-useful things (e.g. which clouds mean 
what weather). 
66 Ishmael (by Daniel Quinn). 
6¢Hmmm...Very interesting writing assignment. | would have 
to say the most important concept to try to convey to stu- 
dents is the ability to balance the ethical ‘value’ of human util- 
ity (even though | dislike that term—sounds so sterile!) with 
the utility of future human generations and non-human beings. 
This conflict is behind almost all environmental debates from 
wetland degradation to global warming. If we can find some 
way to relate these two often-opposing sides, we can discuss 
with less posturing and exaggeration. Money or willingness to 
pay are not the right measure, but they may help with esti- 
mates. The more people we can get thinking about this under- 
lying conflict, the more progress can be made in determining a 
common language. 
66Factors that positively influence my learning are small 
classes, interactive discussion, and professors who try 
innovative and interactive methods to expose their students to 
the subject matter. 
As far as what | wish | could learn, that’s a pretty tough one. | 
wish | could learn everything really, but there’s not enough 
time for that, and I’m sure that’s not very helpful for you, so 
I’ ll try to narrow it some. Here’s a short list: environmental 
issues, specifically policy issues and issues of effectiveness 
and implementation; natural sciences, stuff about the plants 
and animals, mostly biology | guess; also lots of random 
things that aren’ t necessarily academic pursuits, but things 
like I'd like to learn, like how to play 
the drums, I'd like to learn a martial 
art, I’d like to learn to be a good photog- 
rapher, and I'd like to learn a lot more about 
computer programming and application use. 
One of the few committed evangelical Christians I’ve had at Dartmouth 
wrote: 
66 ‘For God so loved the world that He gave his only son, that 
whomsoever believe in him shall not perish, but have 
eternal life.’ 
“Seek ye first the kingdom of God and all these things shall 
be added unto you.’ 
Well, that’s my 2 cents worth, but you know me well 
enough that you’ 
re probably not surprised. :-) 
One student sent back this wonderful (unreferenced) quote: 
66 Elie Wiesel, speaking of the functionaries of the Nazi 
regime: They did not come from the underworld; some 
came from some of the best and most prestigious universities 
in Germany. They had degrees and even doctorates in medi- 
cine, philosophy, jurisprudence, and theology. In other words: 
they were not shielded by their education. What was wrong 
with it? It emphasized theories instead of values, concepts 
rather than human beings, abstractions rather than conscious- 
ness, answers instead of questions, ideology and efficiency 
rather than conscience. 
So this is Dana speaking again. | think, wearily, that if we are clearly fail- 
ing to teach students proper grammar and punctuation and spelling and 
referencing, we should get a lot more humble about our ability to teach 
students anything. 
And what | tell myself, as | start each course, no matter the ostensible 
topic of the course, is that there are just three things to teach: 
1. The paradigm that there are paradigms, that everything they believe 
(and everyone else believes) is a biased, filtered, self-reinforcing, 
close-minded simplification of a Reality far more magnificent than 
they can ever imagine. 
2. That values are real and crucial, not second-rate because they are 
unquantifiable, not something we’ll get to someday when we’re 
done earning money and doing science, not a luxury, but the very 
point of living. 
3. That they should do their best, always, to operate out of love, 
not fear. co 
JENCE 
FICTION: 
THE 
/LLUSTRATED 
ENCYLCLOPEDIA 
FROM 
S¢ 
FROM EYE AND BRAIN 
BEYOND 
LIVTS 
i 
aie 
Vy, 
Beyond the Limits. Donella H. Meadows, 
Dennis A. Meadows, and Jérgen Randers. 
Reissue edition, 1993; 320 pp. $16.95. 
Chelsea Green. Ishmael. Daniel Quinn. 1992. 
272 pp. $13.95. Bantam Doubleday Dell. 
