by wes JACKSON 
We now have a chance to seriously work 
toward solving the problem of agriculture, 
rather than constantly trying to solve prob- 
lems in agriculture. It’s feasible now for agricul- 
ture to be based on the way Nature’s ecosystems 
have worked over millions of years rather than on 
Nature being subdued or ignored. Natural Systems Agriculture is going to 
require about twenty-five years and in the neighborhood of $100-150 million 
spread over that twenty-five-year period: peanuts, really. Soil erosion, 
according to Dave Pimentel at Cornell, costs over $44 billion per year. | think 
we’re at an exact instant in history in which the evolutionary ecological para- 
digm with its modern molecular synthesis is going to stand over and against 
the human cleverness approach promoted by the Monsantos of the world. It’s 
not that I’m totally against all kinds of gene-splicing or biotechnology, but 
they ought to be in a subordinate role. 
I’m hopeful that we can convince an increasing number of smart scientists 
and others to get cracking on this. We’re also going to need the people out of 
the humanities and the social sciences to help keep Natural Systems 
Agriculture on track. When the radical nature of what we’re talking about 
becomes apparent, it’s going to require support from a broad spectrum of 
people. The Monsantos, the pharmaceutical houses, and the seed houses 
that now own so much won't be happy. We’re going to need people who will 
protect Natural Systems Agriculture so that the rewards run to the farmer and 
the landscape. If that doesn’t happen, farmers are increasingly going to be 
part of a feudal system, a proletariat that is effectively serving the owners of 
the land and the input. What’s on the line is nothing less than whether we’re 
going to remain relatively free or whether we’re going to keep feeding the 
oligarchy. So, it’s radical from several points of view: Nature’s not to be sub- 
dued or ignored but looked to; rewards go to the farmer and the landscape 
rather than to the suppliers of input who are laundering the subsidies (or, 
more precisely, to the suppliers for whom the farmers are laundering the 
subsidies). Natural Systems Agriculture is, then, a direct challenge to the 
Baconian-Cartesian world view in favor of an evolutionary, ecological view. 
The industrial hero says we must feed the world. The evolutionary ecological 
agriculturist, on the other hand, says the world must be fed. The latter recog- 
nizes important nuanced differences: the reality of the ecological mosaic and 
a kind of agriculture interested in local adaptation. 
On the one hand, a common philosophy of bioregional specialization unites 
so-called Third World people with people in industrialized society. Respecting 
evolution in natural selection—different bioregions favor different plants — 
also gives respect to a mosaic of agricultures. That’s the uniting principle. 
On the other hand, the industrial approach of those who have the oil and the 
natural gas—the industrial input—is essentially to parachute technologies 
A OREAM OF ORANGES 
by TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS 
When we called the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints for our special issue on Religion and the Environment (WE 91), and asked for their best 
speaker on environmental issues, they said without hesitation, Terry Tempest Williams. Her book Refuge has set the standard for writing about family life, 
naturalist prose, and dealing with enviro-tragedy. Reading Refuge, it's impossible not to cry or hear the cries of curlews and willets in early shoreline mists. 
The image is this: a tree is standing alone in a 
field. Its branches are heavy with oranges. The 
Oranges are peeled. 
somewhere else. 
| was born in 1955 in Corona, California. Our 
Cut the trees. 
backyard was an orchard of orange trees. My 
mother used to tell me that when | was a baby, 
just a few months old, she would hang a swing 
from their branches and let the warm breeze 
rock me to sleep. To this day, the sweet smell of 
orange blossoms elicits memories largely lost 
to me. 
Dig up their roots. 
Pave the good soil. 
The orange groves of the San Bernardino Valley 
are long gone, razed tree by tree, acre by acre, 
for the tracts of houses to come. Paradise was 
replaced by suburbia. 
will take our pulse. 
Dead or alive? 
Peeled oranges ready to eat. We didn’t even see 
the fruit in front of our eyes, so set was our 
NATURAL SYSTEMS AGRICULTURE 
vision on the fruit of our own desires. 
We thought our nourishment came from 
Block by block by block, we have altered the 
land. We exist in boxes, cubicles. We drive to 
work, drive for more, more, more. Freeways. 
Beltways. The communities we now live in are 
called markets. We will take a poll before we 
Wes Jackson is a farmer/scholar of the Jeffersonian ilk. He tries totally original stuff, such as growing a mix of perennial native plants (polyculture) to see if they 
can produce food value equivalent to agribusiness crops and still remain a part of the local ecosystem. He's been a friend of Whole Earth for decades (recent- 
ly he joined the editorial board). He runs the Land Institute (2440 East Water Well Road, Salina, KS 67401, 785/823-5376), which is a great place for graduate- 
level students to get a hands-on education in non-harmful agronomy. Becoming Native to this Place and Altars of Unhewn Stone (WE 91) are recent works. 
into Third World economies and set up brittle infrastructures. So solving 
the problem, it seems to me, is demonstrating that local adaptation, 
honoring the reality of the mosaic, united under a sort of common para- 
digm, and an agriculture based on efficiencies inherent in the natural 
integrities (which haven’t really been tapped), will make it possible for 
us to beat the pants off of industrial-input monocultures. Our Sunshine 
Farm—150 acres run on contemporary sunlight —is in its sixth field 
season. We’re establishing an even playing field for comparison, 
eventually, of perennial polycultures with industrial-input farms. 
Vaclav Smeil, an energy geographer, has asked people about the most 
important invention of the twentieth century, the most important and 
the most fundamental, in existential terms, for the largest number of 
people. He says nothing comes close to the Hobber-Bosch synthesis of 
ammonia, first introduced in 1913 and commercialized after World War |. 
Synthetic nitrogen now supplies about half of the nutrients to the 
world’s annual and permanent crops. Roughly one-half of humanity is 
now alive due to Hobbler-Bosch synthesis. So we can ask how many 
of the 5.3 billion global total population would be here without this 
nitrogen input and the natural gas that is the feed stock for it. 
There’s natural gas now, for fertilizers and petrochemicals, but ultimate- 
ly it will be coal. Why do we have to constantly look to these non-renew- 
ables? That’s a question that ought to be on everybody’s plate. What 
goes along with petrochemical- and coal-derived pesticides, of course, 
is the introduction of chemicals we haven’t evolved with. | mean this is 
the roundup now. It’s turning out Roundup is not benign. We’re going to 
see more and more cancers showing up. We’re going to find social dislo- 
cation, and on, and on. 
The Darwinian view says you don’t put chemicals out there which we 
haven’t evolved with. The Baconian-Cartesian view ignores this. So, this 
isn’t just mere philosophy for the purpose of sounding erudite, it’s hard. 
We're talking about something real. 
What I’m getting at is that there is an alternative: the efficiencies inher- 
ent within the natural integrities of nature’s ecosystems. These efficien- 
cies have scarcely been tapped. We have to try to maximize our mimicry 
of natural systems in various places across the farming mosaic. In our 
projects at the Land Institute, we view the human as fundamentally a 
grass-seed eater; something like seventy to eighty percent of our calo- 
ries globally come from the grass family. And we’re lucky to be near a lot 
of grass-dominated ecosystems that we can look to to see how they 
worked. | love John Todd’s language: elegant solutions predicated on the 
uniqueness of place. The homogenizer doesn’t pay attention to that. co 
against us. 
But what 
about the 
crimes we are 
committing? 
Criminy, we never even 
recognized the abundance of 
the world around 
us, the world we once had. 
It is going, going—I pray | am wrong. 
It is going, going—I pray | am wrong. 
With my eyes closed, | take a deep breath and 
imagine myself swinging beneath the boughs of 
oranges, oranges peeled. 
| hear the voice of Revelation, “What was once 
broken can now be healed.” oo 
Blood flows through our cities at night and we 
worry about crime, the crimes committed 
The Tallgrass 
Restoration 
andbook 
The Tallgrass Restoration Handbook. 
Stephen Packard and Cornelia F. Mutel, 
eds. 1997; 463 pp. $25. Island Press. 
Altars of Unhewn Stone: Science and 
the Earth. Wes Jackson. 1987; 158 pp. 
$12. North Point Press. Becoming Native to 
This Place. Wes Jackson. 1994; 121 pp. 
$12.50. Counterpoint Press. 
Refuge: An Unnatural History of Family and 
Place. Terry Tempest Williams. 1991; 304 pp. 
$12. Vintage Books. 
