— 
A Yaqui Way of Knowledge 
This book records the experiences of an anthropology student 
who becomes the apprentice of don Juan, a Yaqui indian “man 
of knowledge” who is also a “diablero”, a black sorcerer. 
It 
is a profoundly disturbing book since it opens up areas and 
ideas we usually dismiss or deny. Don Juan, over a period of 
five years, teaches the author a little of his knowledge. He 
teaches through giving his apprentice various psycho-active 
plants: peyote, datura, and a mixture of psilocybin mushrooms, 
genista canariensis, and other plants. Each of these plants has 
its own way of teaching, its own demands and its own kind of 
power. For those of us who thought we understood psyche- 
delic effects this book reveals the rudimentary state of our 
knowledge. For those of us who have dismissed magic as a 
combination of hypnotism and stage effects we are confronted 
with powerful and effective magic which seems irrefutable. 
Don Juan himself appears as a powerful, indecipherable, wise 
man whose knowledge is both extensive and alien to our own. 
He offers to each of us the possibility of dealing with other 
realities, but he makes it clear that all these ways are danger- 
ous, difficult and once entered, cannot be put aside as simply 
another experience. 
The goal of his teaching is partially expressed as follows: 
He looked at me for a long time and laughed. 
He said that learning 
through conversation was not only a waste, but stupidity, because 
learning was the most difficult task a man could undertake. 
He 
asked me to remember the time | had tried to find my spot, and 
how | wanted to find it without doing any work because | had ex- 
pected him to hand out all the information. 
If he had done so, he 
said, | would never have learned. 
But, knowing how difficult it was 
to find my spot and, above all, knowing that it existed, would give 
me a unique sense of confidence. 
He said that while | remained 
rooted to my “good spot” nothing could cause me bodily harm, 
because | had the assurance that at that particular spot | was at my 
very best. 
| had the power to shove off anything that might be 
harmful to me. 
If, however, he had told me where it was, | would 
never have had the confidence needed to claim it as true knowledge. 
Thus, knowledge was indeed power. 
Once a man has vanquished fear, he is free from it for the rest of his 
life because instead of fear, he has acquired clarity — a clarity of mind 
which erases fear. By then a man knows his desires; he knows how to 
satisfy those desires. 
He can anticipate the new steps of learning, and 
a sharp clarity surrounds everything. The man feels that nothing is 
concealed. 
And thus he has encountered his second enemy: 
Clarity! That clarity 
of mind, which is so hard to obtain, dispels fear, but also blinds. 
“| say it is useless to waste your life on one path, especially if that 
path has no heart.” 
“But how do you know when a path has no heart, don Juan?” 
“Before you embark on it you ask the question Does this path have a 
heart? 
If the answer is no, you will know it, and then you must choose 
another path.” 
“But how will | know for sure whether a Path has a heart or not?” 
“Anybody would know that. The trouble is nobody asks the question 
and when a man finally realizes that he has taken a path without a heart 
the path is ready to kill him. 
At that point very few men can stop to 
deliberate, and leave the path.” 
“How should | proceed to ask the question properly, don Juan?” 
“Just ask it.” 
“| mean, is there a proper method, so | would not lie to myself and 
believe the answer is yes when it really is no?” 
“Why would you lie?” 
“Perhaps because at the moment the path is pleasant and enjoyable.” 
“That is nonsense. 
A path without a heart is never enjoyable. 
You 
have to work hard even to take it. On the other hand, a path with 
heart is easy; it does not make you work at liking it.” 
You have the vanity to believe you live in two worlds, but that is only 
The particular thing to learn is how to get to the crack between the 
worlds and how to enter the other world. There is a crack between 
the two worlds, the world of the diableros and the world of living 
men. 
There is a place where these two worlds overlap. The crack 
is there. 
It opens and closes like a door in the wind. 
To get there 
aman must excercise his well. 
He must, | should say, develop an 
indomitable desire for it, 
a single-minded dedication. 
But he must 
your vanity. There is but one single world for us. We are men, and 
must follow the world of men contentedly. 
“But is this business of the dog and me pissing on each other true?” 
“It was not a dog! How many times do | have to tell you that? This 
is the only way to understand it. 
It's the only way! 
It was ‘he’ who 
played with you.” 
do it without the help of any power or any man...” 
Not a book to be read for pleasure, a book which will effect 
you more than you may wish to be effected. 
(Reviewed by James Fadiman] 
(Why not read it for pleasure? 
It's frontier Boswell and 
Johnson. — SB) 
“Don't get me wrong, don Juan,” | protested. 
“Il want to have an ally, 
but | also want to know everything | can. 
You yourself have said 
that knowledge is power.” 
“No!” he said emphatically. 
“Power rests on the kind of knowledge 
one holds. What is the sense of knowing things that are useless?” 
Fundamentals of Yoga 
Mishra has practised as general physician, surgeon and endocrinol- 
ogist in India and the West and has a thorough know- 
ledge of Western medicine as well as yoga. This makes his 
book invaluable to the student desiring a detailed scientific 
understanding of yogic theory and methods. 
The book con- 
tains several interesting diagrams of physical systems and 
psycho-physical planes of consciousness. 
Being a practising teacher of yoga, Mishra writes in a forth- 
right direct style and gives, in each chapter, excercises ar- 
ranged in numbered steps, to practice the methods des- 
cribed. The physical, or hatha yoga methods are described 
in some detail, though still only as preparatory to the other 
types of exercises. Methods not usually des- 
cribed in other works on yoga — such as tratakam (concent- 
rated gazing) and nadam (tuning in to inner sound-vibration) 
are also taught and given extensive treatment. There are 
chapters on “Techniques to Magnetize the Body”, “Group 
Relaxation and Group Magnetism”, “Postoperative and Post- 
meditative Suggestion”, “Anesthesia Produced by Yoganidra”, 
“Heal Yourself by Your Own Hormones and Tranquillizers” et al. 
One might find fault with the book’s somewhat excessive load 
of Hindu terminology, much of which is redundant, and 
of more interest to students of Indian culture than to prac- 
titioners. 
This is probably the best book for those professionals and laymen 
who want to apply yogic techniques in physical and psycho-therapy 
both for themselves and others. 
[Suggested and Reviewed by Ralph Metzne 
Fundamentals of Yoga 
Rammurti Mishra 
1959; 255 pp. 
$5.00 postpaid 
from 
Tt 
in Press, Inc. 
L 
rt 
A 
Avenue South 
N 
x, N.Y. 
FUNDAMENTALS 
OF YOGA 
RAMMURT! MISHRA M.0 
Carlos Castaneda 
from 
1968; 196 pp. 
2 
$5.95 postpaid 
E 
“Let’s put it another way, don Juan. What | meant to say is that if 
| had tied myself to a rock with a heavy chain | would have flown 
just the same, because my body had nothing to do with my flying.” 
Don looked at me incredulously. 
“If you tie yourself to a rock,” 
he said, “I’m afraid you will have to fly holding the rock with its 
heavy chain.” 
The Teachings of Don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge 
Room 701 
U: 
y of California Press 
25 West 45th Street 
on Street 
New York, N.Y. 10036 
Ca 94720 
or 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
“Now you are in your native land. Now you do not know where your 
body is. The entire universe is in you and you are in the entire uni- 
verse. 
Innumerable suns, stars, and planets are moving in you. 
Feel 
it, enjoy your real life.” Complete silence. 
Adopt an easy posture. 
Relax your entire body. 
Feel your heart pumping in the chest. 
Hold your breath. 
In a moment you will feel that heart rate and vigor of beat are 
increased. 
i 
6. With every heartbeat, the heart is sending energy to every part of the 
body. 
Feel it. 
7. With increased heart rate and beat, energy is changed into electro 
magnetic pulsation and the entire body is filled with it. Feel it. 
8. The entire is not magnetized, and the spiritual heart and spiritual con 
sciousness are fully manifested in you. 
Feel them. 
9. The whole body becomes the heart of the universe, and you feel that 
the entire body is pulsating as a single heart. 
10 .Gradually you forget the feelings of the physical body and you 
identify yourself completely with supreme consciousness. 
SUR 
One 
11 Now you know that your consciousness is never a product of the 
body, but is manifested in the body. 
12.Feel that your body is one point of manifestation of consciousness, 
but you are everywhere........ 
There are innumerable varieties of nadam, but they will be impractical 
for beginners. The following ten are the most useful and frequent: 
1. Cin nadam: 
Like the hum of the honey-intoxicated bees; idling 
engine vibration; rainfall; whistling sounds; high frequency sound. 
2. Cincin nadam: 
Waterfall, roaring of an ocean. 
Ghanta nadam: 
Sound of a bell ringing. 
Sankha nadam: Sound of a conch shell. 
Tantri vina: 
Nasal sound, humming sound like that of a wire string 
instrument 
. Tala nddam: 
Sound of a small tight drum. 
. Venu nadam: Sound of a flute. 
. Mridamga: Sound of a big bass drum. 
. Bheri nadam: 
Echoing sound 
0.Megha nadam: 
Roll of distant thunder 
PO 
