comes 
thought 
behavior, c 
Courtesy is out of 
The state of American etiquette is now worse 
than ever. Miss Manners is forced to act. | 
shall attempt to show what went wrong, and 
to propose a modest solution. 
In do-your-own-thing America, there is no 
longer much distinction between etiquette, 
the rules of behavior, and manners, the social 
premises from which they are derived. As the 
latter are constantly undergoing revision, one 
can get into serious trouble merely by follow- 
ing the simplest habits of one’s youth. A gen- 
tleman who thoughtlessly defers to a lady can 
find himself labeled a pig; a young person 
taught to address elders in terms of respect 
may be scolded for making them feel old. 
There is also an unfortunate tendency to con- 
fuse manners, which pertain to the outer per- 
son, with morals, which belong in such interior 
realms as the conscience and the soul. 
Religions generally put regula- 
tions about eating, dress, and 
washing in the same category as 
opportunities for sinning that 
promise considerably more fun. 
In Puritan America, acts forbid- 
den by law included making 
nasty faces, jeering at others (or 
leering, depending on how 
attractive one found them), flirt- 
ing, swearing, gossiping, and fin- 
ger-sticking, a list practically con- 
stituting a catalogue of every- 
thing that makes life worth living. 
| can understand the temptation 
of those who deal in both man- 
ners and morals, such as my col- 
league Cotton Mather and his 
friend God, to blur the distinction 
in order to be able to call out the moral militia 
for transgressions of manners. Threatening jail 
or hell is more effective and less wearing than 
the basic technique of those who merely teach 
manners, which is nagging. 
However, the failure to distinguish between 
manners and morals also suggests, erro- 
neously, that from personal virtue, acceptable 
social behavior will follow effortlessly. All you 
need is a good heart, and the rest will take 
care of itself. You don’t ever have to write 
thank-you letters. 
It is probably more sensible to hope that prac- 
ticing proper behavior eventually encourages 
virtuous feeling; that if you have to write 
enough thank-you letters, you may actually 
come to feel a flicker of gratitude. “In truth,” 
wrote Mr. Jefferson, “politeness is artificial 
good humor, it covers the natural want of it, 
and ends by rendering habitual a substitute 
nearly equivalent to the real virtue.” 
If not, good manners can at least put a decent 
cover over ugly feelings. Charming villains 
have always had a decided social advantage 
over well-meaning people who chew with their 
mouths open. “I could better eat with one who 
did not respect the truth or the laws,” wrote 
Ralph Waldo Emerson, “than with a sloven and 
unpresentable person.” 
OIFFERING 
by JUOITH MARTIN, MISS MANNERS 
Judith Martin's nom de plume is Miss Manners. Her book Common Courtesy, excerpted here, 
rom lectures she gave at Harvard. In them, she unveils that the Miss Manners many 
to be simply a populist syndicated columnist and writer of etiquette books for the 
nd confused is equally a remarkable historian, thinker, and stylist on American modes of 
jass, and business. Being “civil’ is stripped of the barbarity of civilization, and returned to 
the coffee cooler, baseball game, and household where it has most import. We thank her and her 
agent for allowing us to print this excerpt (copyright© 1985 by Judith Martin). To our horror, Common 
print. 
forelorna 
ee 
ea 
* 
Spyz phot 
tens 
Sa eee eres 
a 
eet 
= 
FROM ENVISIONING INFORMATION 
The belief that natural behavior is beautiful, 
and that civilization’s restrictions spoil the 
essential goodness inherent in all of us noble 
savages, is, of course, the Jean Jacques 
Rousseau School of Etiquette. He began his 
career as a footman, and does not seem to 
have cared for it. 
A major influence in Jefferson’s time, 
Rousseau’s philosophy continues to survive in 
the pop-psychology and “human potential” 
movements of today, and in the do-nothing 
school of child-rearing, which has given us so 
many little—savages. In point of fact, we are 
all born rude. No infant has ever appeared yet 
with the grace to understand how inconsiderate 
it is to disturb others in the middle of 
the night. 
The concept that civilization is inherently cor- 
rupt, but Nature inevitably benign, is particu- 
larly popular in earthquake- and flood-ridden 
California. The natural 
approach to human 
relations presumes 
that to know any per- 
son well enough is to 
love him, and that, 
therefore, the only 
human problem is a 
communication prob- 
lem. It refuses to 
admit the possibility 
that people might be 
separated by basic, 
deeply held, genuinely 
irreconcilable differ- 
ences— philosophical, 
political, or religious. 
Thus, the effort to trivialize etiquette as being 
a barrier to the happy mingling of souls, actu- 
ally trivializes intellectual, emotional, and 
spiritual convictions by characterizing any dif- 
ference between one person’s and another’s 
as no more than a simple misunderstanding, 
easily solved by frank exchanges or orches- 
trated “encounters.” 
Many forms of etiquette are employed exactly 
to disguise those antipathies that arise from 
irreconcilable differences, in order to prevent 
mayhem. When | was president of a school 
board, a member with whom | disagreed on 
every possible educational issue suggested 
that we could resolve our differences if the 
trustees all went off on retreat and got to 
know one another better. “You don’t under- 
stand,” | had to tell him. “The only reason | 
haven’t murdered you is that | really don’t 
know you all that well, so | feel | have to give 
you the benefit of the doubt. Do you want to 
remove that doubt?” The reason that diploma- 
cy is so Stilted is that its purpose is to head 
off the most natural social relation between 
countries in economic or ideological conflict, 
namely war. 
The charge is often made against etiquette 
that it is artificial. Yes, indeed, it is. Civilization 
is artificial. When people extoll the virtues of 
naturalness, honesty, informality, intimacy, 
WITH OIC 
and creativity— 
watch out. 
Honesty has 
come to mean 
the privilege of 
insulting you to 
your face without 
expecting 
redress, and cre- 
ativity that it is 
wrong to interfere with a child who is destroy- 
ing your possessions. It is apparently natural 
behavior to treat the sick, the disabled, and 
the bereaved with curiosity and distaste, but it 
is also highly uncivilized. 
We need a coherent code of manners. | would 
prefer ratings based not on commerce —dictat- 
ed expenditure but on gentility of manners. 
We seem to be gradually adopting a system of 
precedence based on age, rather than gender, 
and | rather think that is a good idea, as it 
gives everyone a shot at being last and then first. 
| believe that the only hope for satisfying the 
American idea of equality of treatment in this 
society —being recognized as “being as good 
as anyone else” —is reestablishing the dual- 
ism of the commercial and the personal 
realms. By not separating trade and society in 
the lives of individuals, we force people to 
take total identity from their jobs, and there- 
fore rob them of any realm in which human 
beings could and should have full equality in 
our society. 
One should not be assigned one’s identity in 
society by the job slot one happens to fill. If 
we truly believe in the dignity of labor, any 
task can be performed with equal pride 
because none can demean the basic dignity of 
a human being. 
Off the job, there will be many attributes that 
may make one person more successful than 
another, but these will be ones to which any- 
one Can aspire, and which, in the absence of 
an objective ranking system, such as prevails 
in the business realm, different people will 
judge in different ways. | believe and hope 
that a revival of the private realm would pre- 
clude hierarchies in which absolute standards, 
such as job titles and money, rather than per- 
sonal qualities, mark some individuals as 
obviously superior to others. 
| think my colleague Thomas Jefferson would 
agree. I’m not so sure about my colleague 
Cotton Mather. Co 
ANNOYMOUS. 
ROMANOFF'S 
RESTAURANT. 
Dear Miss Manners: Is Sophia Loren showing good man- 
ners in considering Jayne Mansfield’s dress? Perplexed. 
Whole Earth Staff. 
WISE, LIKEWISE, 
and OTHERWISE 
The Gift: The Form and Reason for Exchange 
in Archaic Societies. Marcel Mauss and W.D. 
Halls, translator. 1990; 164 pp. $9.95. W. W. 
Norton. Miss Manners’ Guide for the Turn-of- 
Millenium. Judith Martin. 1990; 742 pp. $17. 
Simon & Schuster. 
THE GIFT 
es 
| 
Miners 
GUIDE-FOR THE 
TURN-OF-THE-MILLENNIUM 
rs 
ain i 
- 
¢ 
Democracy in America. Alexis De Tocqueville. 
1969; 778 pp. $20. HarperCollins. The Rise of 
the West: A History of the Human Community. 
William 
McNeill. 
1963; 
860 
pp. 
22.95. 
University 
of Chicago 
Press. A History of 
Civilizations. Fernand Braudel. 1987; 600 pp. 
$15.95. Penguin. 
