| 
PATHS 
COOE OF THE WARRIOR 
by RICK FIELDS 
Rick Fields first wrote for Whole Earth about an experimental hunger fast in 1969. He wrote the first book on Buddhism coming to 
America (How The Swans Came to the Lake } recently co-wrote Instructions to the Cook (about a Zen priest caring for the home- 
less in Yonkers); has edited New Age Journal, the Vajradhatu Sun, and Yoga Journak and contributed to Whole Earth on many occa- 
sions, especially on religion. His book of poems Fuck You Cancer (WE 94) is a revered, compassionate, funny, warriorlike guide for can- 
cer sufferers. He calls himself a dyed-in-the-wool Buddhist. Friend, teacher, GO player, heart brother—every joy that life's about. 
Blood Rites: Origins and History of the 
Passions of War. Barbara Ehrenreich. 
1997; 256 pp. $14.95. Henry Holt. The 
Awakened Warrior. Rick Fields, ed. 1994; 
267 pp. $14.95. G.P. Putnam’s Sons. 
Autobiography: 
The 
Story 
of 
My 
Experiments with Truth. Mohandas 
K. 
Gandhi translated 
by Mahadev Desai. 
1948; 480 pp. $9.95. Dover. Gandhi on 
Non-Violence. Mohandas K. Gandhi, edit- 
ed by Thomas Merton. 1964; 82 pp. $5.95. 
New Directions Publishing Co.. 
The code of the warrior has the basic qualities of courage, loyalty and 
willingness to sacrifice for the larger group, to be connected to some- 
thing larger than simply the individual. Human beings are group ani- 
mals. Even though individualism is of a huge value for us, it’s clear that 
none of us really can exist by ourselves, that our values were forged in 
groups, that human beings live in groups, and so one of the values of a 
warrior is being protective of the group no matter what the group is, or 
how the group is defined. 
In her book Blood Rites, Barbara Eherenreich quotes Israeli military his- 
torian Martin Van Creveld: 
Given time, the fighting itself will cause the two sides to become 
more like each other, even to the point where opposites con- 
verge, merge, and change places. 
. 
. 
. The principal reason 
behind this phenomenon is that war represents perhaps the 
most imitative activity known to man. 
Eherenreich says, 
There is a mechanism—almost a human reflex—that guarantees 
that belligerents will in fact be “given time” for this convergence to 
occur, and that mechanism is revenge: A raid or attack or insult 
must be matched with an attack of equal or greater destructive 
force. One atrocity will be followed by another; and no matter how 
amicable the two sides may once have been, they will soon be 
locked together in a process from which no escape seems possible. 
To the warrior, the necessity of revenge may be self-evident and 
beyond appeal. 
At a certain point of history, the idea of not taking revenge arises asa 
religious idea. It arises in China, in India with the Buddha, and in the 
Middle East with Christ. And all of a sudden, somebody is saying “turn 
the other cheek” or as the Buddha says, “hatred is not ended by 
hatred.” This is very unusual. The question always is: what 
is the viability of a society that espouses these 
ideas in the face of societies that don’t? 
And the answer is not very hopeful. 
The Tibetans, for example, incor- 
porated the Buddhist world 
view into what was a very 
active warrior society. 
China attacked and now 
the country is occupied, 
the culture is practically 
destroyed, the monaster- 
ies are destroyed, the 
women have been raped, 
and the whole country is 
physically occupied. 
It seems that now there has to be a movement 
that says we’re not going to buy into revenge. This is 
kind of a forgiveness, or seeing that a way out of this logic, out of 
this deadly logic, is more valuable than continuing the revenge cycle. It’s 
always a scary thing. The code of the warrior takes a lot more than fight- 
ing the other side or conquest. It takes the courage to die. And the 
Buddha’s notion of a Bodhisattva as somebody whose ideal is striving 
for enlightenment for the benefit of the other person takes great 
courage, and it takes seeing through the whole revenge cycle. 
That’s why | think that the Buddhist or the spiritual alternative is so 
incredibly important; because without some way to break that logic— 
which is the logic of samsara— 
the suffering just goes on and on. When you think about the Bodhisattva 
vow in Buddhism, you know it’s awesome to say that I’m giving up my 
own enlightenment in this lifetime, I’m giving up my own nirvana, I’m 
going to keep coming back into this world until all beings are eventually 
enlightened. 
Humans are a mixture of ignorance and arrogance at the same time, 
which is a most dangerous combination. One of the things the species 
needs to do is to cut through our own arrogance, our sense that we 
know what we’re doing, because we don’t. And the other thing we need 
to do is to cut through our own ignorance. In Buddhism, this is the root 
problem that human beings have. That’s why meditation and the devel- 
opment of wisdom are so crucial. And that’s 
why the development of wisdom is 
seen as going hand and hand 
with the development of 
compassion. There 
doesn’t really seem 
to be another 
possibility as 
far as | can see. 
And I’m not 
talking about 
Buddhism as a 
religion itself, I’m 
talking about that 
kind of approach to 
the problem. 
LL 
yountan We 
f 
ath 
a 
no 
What Gandhi was able to do, in part, 
was appeal to the British code of the warrior, 
a sense of fair play and respect, but he spent a lot of 
time in jail. 
Ultimately, when somebody wanted to kill him, they killed him. And the 
reason they wanted to kill him was because they thought that he was 
giving in to the idea of a Muslim state. It was a Hindu nationalist who 
killed Gandhi—not a Muslim—and that in turn unleashed massacres; a 
lot of people died. So it’s a question of how successful that strategy 
was, as admirable as it might be, or might have been. Gandhi himself 
said that the person who faces a cannon without another cannon is a 
braver warrior than the one who simply fights back. That takes a great 
amount of warrior virtues, of discipline, of courage, of sacrifice, of all 
those things. You have to be highly motivated and highly trained. It only 
worked because large masses of people revered Gandhi so greatly. 
So, in the Code of the Warrior, | end with a little chapter on bringing the 
warrior down to earth, where Ed Abbey says the idea of wilderness 
needs no defense, it only needs defenders. So Earth First ends up being 
a kind of warrior society; it takes on a particular code of, say, nonvio- 
lence because of the recognition that if you use force against the nation- 
state, the state will seek revenge and you will be crushed. So you’re sort 
of looking for a kind of jujitsu. You have to be smarter, figure out how to 
use the power of the state against itself or to get out of the way of the 
state. Or you pledge yourself to nonviolence, which only really works 
when things have progressed far enough that people respect it. 
Sun Tzu says that the greatest general wins by not fighting. In Aikido, 
you do the same sort of thing. You fight by using your enemy’s aggres- 
sion against himself, not by meeting him head-on in battle, but by 
deflecting his energy. We all have to figure out a way to do that or else 
we're caught perpetually in the situation we’re caught now: no matter 
what, warfare seems to go on. Warfare has its own kind of energy. CO 
The Art of War. Sun Tzu. 1996; 92 pp. $9.95. NewStar Press (formerly Dove Books), 8955 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, 
CA 90048, 310/273-7722, www.newstarmedia.com. The Transformation of War. Martin Van Creveld. 1991; 253 pp. $29.95. 
Simon & Schuster. Pillar of Fire: America During the King Years 1963-65. Taylor Branch. 1998; 746 pp. $30. Simon & 
Schuster. Parting the Waters: America In the King Years 1954-63. Taylor Branch. 1989; 1038 pp. $16. Simon & Schuster. 
Under the Mountain Wall: A Chronicle of Two Seasons in Stone Age New Guinea. Peter Mattheissen. 1962; 272 pp. $12.95. 
Penguin. 
, 
THE MOST RaDicay 
AED CONC Sno 
oF 
‘ 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
