: 
: 
by GALE PENOELL 
Dale Pendell is Whole Earth's contributing editor on plant powers, an immense job if you think of it. In addition to being an ethnobotanist writ large, he's an elegant craftsman of poetic prose and a software 
engineer. This short essay is from his upcoming book Pharmako/Gnosis: Plant Teachers and the Poison Path. Dale told me he writes for us because we cherish adventurous intellect, trust his imagination, and 
PLANT TEACHERS & THE PATH OF EVE 
tefuse to edit out or water down his ideas. What a gracious compliment. 
Pharmako/Poeia: Plant Powers, Poisons, 
and Herbcraft Dale Pendell. 1995; 287 pp. 
$19.95. Mercury House, 736 Clementina 
Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, CA 
94103, 415/626-7874, 
www.wenet.net/~mercury. HempWorld: 
The International Hemp Journal $15/year 
(quarterly) 8080 Mirabel Avenue, 
Forestville, CA 95436, 707/887-7508, 
www.hempworld.com. Medicines from 
the Earth: A Guide to Healing Plants 
William A. R. Thomson, M.D. Out of print. 
Plants of the Gods: Their Sacred, 
Healing and Hallucinogenic Powers 
Richard Evans Schultes and Albert 
Hoffman. 1992; 192 pp. $22.95. Healing 
Arts Press, One Park Street, Rochester, 
VT 05767, 802/767-3174, 
www.innertraditions.com. The Secret Life 
of Plants Peter Tompkins and 
Christopher Bird. 1989; 402 pp. $17. 
HarperCollins. 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
Plants were the first of Earth’s creatures to establish extraterrestrial con- 
tact. First Contact. Beyond the sulfur vents and the acid radicals deep in 
bedrock, the seafloor ruptures. The first to contact the greater cosmos. 
Intelligence collectors, electron transfer chains up an entropic pathway, 
latent complexities of space, a shamanic balancing act at 1 AU. 
Every carbon atom in our bodies has at one time passed 
through the chloroplast membrane of a plant. 
Plants are the placenta of all animal life, from when the humans 
(homunculus, humus, hence “earthlings”) were a mere wisp of dream 
in a chancy future. 
Love and strife, Empedocles maintained. The sieve of selection and the 
fandango. Fit survival, but also the peacock’s tail, exuberance, excess. 
A great swirling, and a song arose. Katydids, cicadas. Munching on 
green. Autophagia really. Or eating the god. 
And the gods fought back: alkaloids, CNS poisons, tryptamines, beta- 
carbolines, lianas snaking from the canopy. Fungi garnered the recycling 
trade. Partnerships, parasites, nothing standing still. 
Oils, terpenes, carbohydrates, even protein, the main course of the 
teachings. And beyond, like a graduate school, “secondary metabolites,” 
the poisons, the medicine. 
Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. 
(Genesis) 
The Original Prohibition, our first drug law. 
To plant people everywhere, certain plants are regarded with a special 
reverence: the sacred plants, sharing something of godly nature. That 
which had been attacked, that which resisted, the rebels, “thus far and 
no further shalt thou come.” 
Plants represent immediacy, a seamless suchness. No comments. 
No philosophizing, no rationalizing. Just the Fact. The Buddha once 
preached a whole sermon by holding aloft a flower. Kasyapa understood 
and smiled. 
We can find the songs in ethnopoetics, or hear the prayers from those 
who have maintained the archaic connection, but it’s all in Milton: 
O Sacred, Wise, and Wisdom-giving Plant, 
Mother of Science, Now | feel thy Power 
Within me clear, not only to discern 
Things in thir Causes, but to trace the ways 
Of highest Agents, deem’d however wise. 
MAZATEC SHAMAN FROM PLANTS OF THE GODS 
There was a great taming, leaching the tannins or 
cooking out the cyanide: acorns, cassava, breed- 
ing the tame ones. Women’s work. Root gatherers 
and kitchen chemists. A few of the god-plants 
entered the chagra, the circle, like barbarian 
nomads finding a fertile valley, but mostly they 
stayed wild, became a specialty of those daring to 
eat wildness, the bitter. Plants with a voice: the 
Tree of Knowledge. 
On a large bronze door cast around 1020 in the 
cathedral in Hildesheim, the Tree has a vague 
mushroom shape. It may be modeled after local 
daisies, small nub of disk flowers, the ray petals 
drooping, or perhaps a deadly Lepiota, L. castanea, 
or, some 
Say, 
Psilocybe semilanceata. \n a fresco on the ceiling of the Romanesque 
church in St. Savin in central France, the Tree resembles Amanita muscaria 
with tiny fruit hanging from the cap. This is perhaps a Byzantine styliza- 
tion of a date palm. Or is it? 
O Sovran, virtuous, precious of all Trees 
In Paradise, of operation blest 
To Sapience, hitherto obscur’d, infam’d, 
And thy fair Fruit let hang, as to no end 
Created; but henceforth my early care, 
Not without Song, each Morning, and due praise 
Shall tend thee, and the fertile burden ease 
Of thy full branches offer’ d free to all; 
Till dieted by thee | grow mature 
In knowledge, as the Gods who all things know. 
Eve has many depictions, sometimes thin, sometimes fleshy or nubile, 
sometimes like Isis. On the north portico of the Gothic cathedral at 
Rheims, she cradles a small reptilian creature in her arms, tenderly. 
Blake made her voluptuous. From a distance, his painting of Eve accept- 
ing the apple from the mouth of the serpent looks like an act of fellatio, 
Eve’s hand caressing the serpent’s head. At Notre Dame it’s a threesome, 
our loving Forebears joining their hands together around the Serpent’s 
arboreal phallus. Eve’s way, the one who dared. The one who shared. 
The patron saint of the poison path. 
Shall | to him make known 
As yet my change, and give him to partake 
Full happiness with mee, or rather not, 
But keep the odds of 
Knowledge in my power 
Without Copartner? 
Eve is also Pandora, the gifted and the all-giving. Poisoned apple, 
poisoned gift, all the sorrows of life on the great wheel of becoming. 
German gift, poison, related to Anglo-Saxon words for espousal, the 
bride-price. Something must be given. Something must be let go. 
Poison and medicine are samsara and nirvana, forever wedded. 
in an African version of the Pandora story, what was left at the bottom 
of the casket was a gourd of beer, that given by the gods. Enthusiasm 
is ebriety. God within. 
As with new wine intoxicated both They swim in mirth, and fancy that 
they feel Divinity within them breeding wings. A playfulness in the sacra- 
ment: within the poison, a gift. Thus, dialectic. The truth, as glimpsed by 
Hegel, “is thus the bacchanalian revel, where not 
a member is sober.” A fugitive quality, a beyond- 
ness. Atalanta fleeing, the Great Matter, ultimate 
seriousness, but it never quite stops dancing. We 
can point to it, we can present it, but in the end 
it refuses definition. And we are grateful. 
So saying, from the Tree her step she 
turn’d, 
But first low Reverence done, as to the 
power 
That dwelt within, whose presence had 
infus’d 
Into the plant sciential sap, deriv’d 
From Nectar, drink of Gods. 
—Milton, Paradise Lost co 
