Red 
BEYOND 
THE VEIL 
Mole Female Dynamics 
Modern Mos! 
~ 
Do you know 
the secret... 
FROM GENDER ADVERTISEMENTS 
Beyond the Veil: Male-Female Dynamics 
in Modern Muslim Society. Fatima 
Mernissi. 2nd edition, 1987; 200 pp. 
$12.95. Indiana University Press. Hard- 
hatted Women: Life on the Job. Molly 
Martin, ed. 1988; 272 pp. $14.95. Seal 
Press, 3131 Western Avenue 
#410, Seattle, WA 98121, 206/283-7844, 
www.sealpress.com. The New Joy of Sex: 
A Gourmet Guide to Lovemaking for the 
Nineties. Alex Comfort, M.D., D.S.C. 4th 
edition, 1994; 253 pp. $20. Simon & 
Schuster. The New Good Vibrations 
Guide To Sex: Tips and Techniques from 
America’s Favorite Sex Toy Store. Cathy 
Winks and Anne Semans. 2nd edition, 
1997; 304 pp. $21.95. Cleis Press, PO Box 
14684, San Francisco, CA 94114, 415/575- 
4700. 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
by PaTRIZIA DILUCCHIO 
Patrizia DiLucchio, a former nurse, health policy analyst, model, criminologist, and topless dancer, broke into print with the cover article on birthtales in WER No. 78. She writes regularly for 
Entertainment Weekly and Women's Wire, while continuing to grace our pages with her candor and wit. She copped the prize Millennium Whole Earth Catalog gig, editing—with flair—the Sex, 
Death, and Women’s Health sections. She lives in Monterey with her husband, two kids, two dogs, and one snake. 
09S AND STUROFOAM 
Frankly, | don’t spent a lot of time thinking about gender roles. Call it a 
luxury associated with living in the family of nations that makes up the 
West—there are no wild-eyed clerics forcing me behind a veil here in 
California, though our own homegrown fanatics, springing principally 
from conservative flavors of Christianity, still daydream of a home where 
only Mr. XX wears the 501s—but in practical terms the days when 
women’s gender roles in my part of the world were carved in marble are 
long gone. Today’s rules are etched in Styrofoam. 
What are gender roles anyway, as we slouch ever closer to the new mil- 
lennium? Those same zealots who talk about veils and pants are con- 
vinced that their own ideological views reflect some eternal nexus of 
theological purpose and biological design. Women bear and raise chil- 
dren. Men hunt mammoths. A few of the less religiously inclined voices 
advocate limitations on the role of women in society under the broad 
and confusing umbrella of “family values.” The real role of gender in the 
modern age, and please, let’s not confuse gender roles with sexuality, 
has always been more about economics and the de facto link between 
marketplace power and political clout than it has been about compara- 
tive anatomy. Follow the money. Just as there have always been econom- 
ic and political arguments hidden behind the platforms of racism or anti- 
Semitism, so too money and power enter into the equation regarding 
gender bias. The same gains seen in the suburbs are harder to find in 
the inner city where poverty is the norm. In the years of lock-’em-up law 
and order since the eighties, rates of incarceration for men have more 
than doubled, but for women the increase has been five-fold. 
American women entered the work force in significant numbers in the 
1920S5— actually women were always a vital part of the work force if we 
consider agriculture—but the Great Depression negated those gains. 
Women came bouncing back during the war years in the early 1940s, 
whether as truck drivers, or airplane mechanics, or steelworkers—only 
to lose those jobs when the “boys” came home. Somehow it seemed 
patriotic to fire a woman and hire a man to do her job. Besides, the baby 
boom that followed created the largest pool of new consumers ever seen 
in the US, and somebody had to change all those diapers while the men- 
folk were earning the down payments for tract homes. It comes as no 
great surprise that women jumped right back into the work force once 
the boomers were out of the house. What they never mentioned on 
Leave It To Beaver was that June Cleaver probably had a realtor’s license. 
‘Looking at the past eighty years, it’s pretty easy to see that gender barri- 
ers didn’t topple like the Berlin Wall with the birth of feminism. They’ve 
been crumbling for generations, fueled more by the great maw of con- 
sumerism than by the wishful thinking of any particular social agenda. 
INTEGRATIVE MEDICINE 
by aNOREW WEIL, MO 
Andrew Weil, MD is on our editorial board. He brings his encyclopedic knowledge of all kinds of healing; his (now amazingly successful) ambassadorial 
acumen to bridging Western medicine to other traditions; a humane perspective on altered states of consciousness; a love of fireworks and mushrooms; 
and excellence in popular writing. His first book, The Natural Mind (1971), is still stunning. He's written five more. He is currently Associate Director of the 
Division of Social Perspectives in Medicine and Director of the Program in Integrative Medicine at the University of Arizona. He graciously found time in 
his incredibly busy schedule for this phone interview. 
NENDERS 
We got the vote and went to work. But 
how many families can afford to buy a 
house on a single income? How about 
the sport utility vehicle, braces for the kids, 
and that dish television system? 
Once women entered the workplace for good in the sixties and seventies 
it followed that soon no single corner of the workplace would remain off- 
limits. The arguments against a woman as a firefighter, or a police officer, 
or a CEO ultimately rang as hollow as those earlier arguments against a 
woman in any other position. Even the military’s aversion to women in 
combat positions was severely compromised in the Gulf War when 
women pilots were placed in the line of fire. Certainly there are still glass 
ceilings in the corporate workplace, gender bias remains epidemic out- 
side the developed economies of the West, and even within those areas 
of Western economies dependent upon so-called ‘cheap labor,’ as well as 
in some blue collar trades where men continue to exercise at least a 
casual prejudice, but by and large for Ms. XY, gender has simply ceased 
to be a factor in legitimate career counseling. 
This is a good thing. Maybe. 
As a society while we’ve come to embrace our sisters’ moves into the 
marketplace, we continue to frown upon anything that smacks of our 
brothers’ moves away from that grindstone. The soccer mom holds down 
a job, drives a minivan, does childcare, and continues to do eighty-five 
percent of the cooking in most homes. Dad’s stuck in his cubicle for sixty 
hours a week and if he even thinks about flex-time or job sharing he can 
kiss promotion good-bye. True, there are role reversals in some house- 
holds—dad drives the minivan, cooks, attends soccer games, con- 
tributes to the cash flow in some fashion, and it’s mom who’s stuck at 
the office, but ultimately the message is the same. We're all working way 
too hard. Will that change in the next millennium? 
Not likely. 
Gender equality comes at a price. The lesson of the level playing field is 
that everyone has to compromise. And, needless to say, compromise is 
never ideal. We’ll elect a woman as President, but we won’t elect a single 
mom, let alone a housewife. And we may figure out a way for our hus- 
bands to bear children, but will they ever look good in red pumps? co 
The speed with which medical institutions, 
including medical schools, are beginning to 
open to integrative medicine is astonishing 
and very gratifying. They’re being forced into 
it. The institutions have no choice but to 
adapt; nonetheless it’s nice to see. This 
change in medicine could be very important to 
society, going way beyond developments like 
alternative therapies. To give one example: if 
physicians were educated about the relation- 
ship between the environment and health, and 
really came to appreciate environmental caus- 
es of illness, they could as a group be a very 
powerful force pushing for environmental 
protection and clean-up. A more conscious, 
more enlightened medical profession would 
be a strong agent for social changes within 
our culture. 
Breast cancer and neurological diseases such 
as Parkinson’s and ALS, for example, are going 
to turn out to be traceable to environmental 
toxins like endocrine disruptors. Doctors’ edu- 
cations now include none of this understand- 
ing of environmental toxins as a causation of 
disease. Physicians as a profession have been 
very apathetic and just haven’t pushed for 
this, though they’re the ones who should be 
most concerned 
about it. 
It’s how physicians are trained and also our 
culture’s very reductionist thinking. It’s the 
prejudice and bias of science in our culture to 
see natural products as inexact and want to 
reduce activity down to single compounds. 
Medical education really isolates people from 
nature. Students have no first-hand experi- 
ence of it in their training and pick up the 
prejudice that nature is inexact and wild and 
uncontrolled and dangerous. 
