2 
Alice in Wonderland & Through the 
Looking Glass. Lewis Carroll. 1946; 307 
pp. $15.99. Penguin Putnam. Goode’s 
World Atlas. Edward B. Espenshade, Jr. 
and John C. Hudson. igth edition, 1996; 
368 pp. $34.95. Rand McNally. Powers 
of Ten (see access, p. 62). On Size and 
Life. Thomas A. McMahon and John Tyler 
Bonner. 1987; 255 pp. $32.95. W.H. 
Freeman. 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
by JARON LANIER 
OANCING PATTERNS 
LIFE AT THE TECHNO-HUMANIST INTERFACE 
laron Lanier's first love is music, which, in part, explains how his imagination discovered virtual reality machines, his acumen about theory, and his interest in the bioluminscent playfulness of giant 
squid photophores. His home overflows with wonderful flutes and stringed instruments. He is a pianist, computer scientist, composer, and clear and sweet-tempered essayist. This is a part of a longer 
piece on techno-visualization practices that can be used to bridge humanism and technology. 
As | write this, a presidency is threatened, and a nation might be torn 
apart, over what seems at first to be nothing, and on closer inspection is 
an unresolved archetypal struggle about some version of “the sixties.” 
What was that incomparable sixties rush all about? | was a child when 
the Catalog came out (born 1960) and magic was wafting through the 
air. Everyone wrote better melodies then, and it seemed possible for 
anyone to achieve sensations that had never before been known by a 
human mind. 
As | read the sacred old document, what strikes me most is its intoxica- 
tion with cybernalia. The Catalog managed to find and promote a sexy 
book on chaos before there was a chaos theory, and was delightfully 
devoted to computers before computers became dramatic. Every topic 
was considered worthy of being graced with the cybernetic vibe; ecolo- 
gy, lifestyle, politics, even spirituality. In retrospect, it seems that it 
wasn’t any set of events or inventions that created the “sixties” so 
much as a single idea: the cybernetic metaphor. 
When the world is understood as information, as system, as pattern, as 
process, one can benefit from the unique rush of being able to 
see the whole vast expanse of reality from a command- 
ing height. There it is: the source of all that light. 
One big change since the time of the Catalog 
is embracing “out-of-controlness.” The systems 
thinking in the 1968 Catalog is all about becom- 
ing aware of and learning to design using ever 
more general systemic layers of interpretation. 
This, and the HP calculator, are the only 
things in the Catalog that seem quaint. Even 
though the prospect was mentioned, some- 
how it hadn’t quite sunk in yet that systems 
could 
be bigger than 
people, 
ultimately 
ungraspable. The Catalog reader was an indi- 
vidualist, out on the land, on the road, creating 
not be a fear of soul loss. The Clinton haters fear that even a trace of the 
sixties represents a moral threat of the most profound variety. Similar 
paranoia has been directed at leftist, counterculture, or merely intellec- 
tual elements at many other times in American history, of course, but it’s 
worth wondering if the paranoid Right might be afraid of something that 
is not entirely without basis, even if it is terribly inarticulate and danger- 
ous in its expressions. Rational thinking is not the friend of fundamental 
life meaning. 
There is no point in arguing across the divide, but | have been trying to 
find a middle path. At present we still know we are animals. We eat and 
sleep and reproduce in essentially natural ways, and, most dramatically, 
we think with natural brains, modified only by external experiences, 
however enriched those experiences might be by culture and informa- 
tion technology. There has to be some sense of conservatism, some 
anchor for what is human, if we wish to have science and technology 
serve humanity. That anchor is clear enough now—we are it. In the 
future we will have to choose. 
Among my technophiliac colleagues, there isn’t any sense of resignation 
that humans must remain human in the far future. The human brain 
might become augmented through implanted and remote devices, 
genetic manipulation, enhanced embryogenesis, and artificial 
sensory organs. The human of the future might be able to think 
in ten dimensions with intuitive and experiential 
grace, instantly remember all the faces ever seen by any 
of her contemporaries via wireless net links, and see 
microwaves. She might even find within herself the 
capacity to know the new and unimaginable 
subjective color of microwaves. 
In the long term, the augmentation of the 
brain, and the change in human identity that 
will go along with it, are probably inevitable, and 
could even turn out to be fun and lovely. But only if they 
occur slowly enough to allow for a persistence of human iden- 
EDWARD SCISSORHANDS 
a new world out of thought and action. The 
nineties Catalog nostalgist, on the other hand, struggles in the eddies of 
economic and technological change, more opportunistic than farsighted. 
Thus has the egoistic rush that drove the sixties mellowed into the more 
cautious mixture of awe and terror with which we apprehend the future. 
Warhol, Fuller, Leary, and the rest experienced the same rush in their 
own ways. | knew many of them, and while to varying degrees | loved 
and admired these explorers, there was often a pit of doubt deep in me. 
My doubt was in part a premonition of “out-of-controlness anxiety,” and 
in part a feeling that something vital was being left out. There was a dis- 
tance, a slight sterility. The universe was thrillingly revealed, but the 
subjective moral center of a person somehow went missing. This little 
unit is utterly dispensable to rational understanding, of course; you have 
to choose to believe in it. In the cybernetic era, | decided, faith is the 
thing needed to bring people, not God, into existence. 
It’s enormously hard to make sense of the current political and cultural 
war. Why are the sixties hated to such a degree that a president who 
even slightly evokes them must be subjected to a public humiliation 
unprecedented in modern history? | wonder if at the core there might 
tity in the transition. To simply equip a new generation with vastly 
different brains is the equivalent of cultural suicide. This will be a real 
possibility demanding a real decision at some time in the future, and | 
would not be surprised to see it come up during the twenty-first century. 
| know full well that my views on this aren’t necessarily shared by all the 
other practitioners in the field, but | celebrate my colleagues on my own 
terms nonetheless. | perceive a distinct tradition of humanists in infor- 
mation technology from the earliest days. Doug Engelbart, the inventor 
of the mouse and much of the current conception of a computer, is the 
patron saint of this tradition. He once told me a story. It’s the late fifties 
or early sixties, and Doug’s chatting with Marvin Minsky, one of the 
fathers of Artificial Intelligence (and a treasured mentor to me when 
| was a young sprout). Marvin talks about Al and Doug says, “You're 
going to do all that for the computers? What are you going to do for 
the people?” 
Technological humanists like Doug created the art of user interface 
design, became concerned with the political implications of network 
design, and initiated the craft of visualization. Theirs is the technological 
culture to which | have pledged my allegiance. co 
