ee 
MILE 
POSTS 
by mARY CATHERINE BATESON 
Mary Catherine Bateson is hugely multidimensional—linguistics, the Middle East, anthropology—with books on AIDS, the sacred, her parents (Margaret 
Mead and Gregory Bateson), learning, and thinking about life changes (her popular book Composing a 
Life). She's on sabbatical from George Mason 
University, recovering from the fabulous wedding of her daughter, and, with typically exceptional competence, pulling together the Margaret Mead 
Centennial (p. 33). 
So... you’re having another birthday, Whole Earth. You’re going the 
easy way, celebrating when there is a five or a zero in your age, which 
is traditional but arbitrary. For human beings, if not for magazines, we 
need some new ways of thinking about development and aging that 
take account of the new demography, for the mileposts of the past have 
changed their meanings. 
For example, I’ve been wondering whether we should shift over to the 
duodecimal system in thinking about age, finding a way to fold new 
longevity into familiar figures. For anyone who remembers calculating 
on the base twelve instead of ten in school, you’ll know that by adding 
two new digits to the system for 10 and 11, you get to say you are 10 
(DD—for duodecimal) when you have lived 12 years (decimal), which 
is now a pretty good approximation for puberty (which used to come 
later and lacked a zero). Twenty (DD) corresponds to 24, 30 (DD) to 36, 
and so on. This should please everyone but the twelve year olds. In fact, 
the rhythm of the life cycle has changed so dramatically that the other 
zeros also fall meaningfully in the DD system: 24 (DD 20) is the earliest 
most people can hope for a regular job—economic maturity—and 36 is 
a better moment than 30 to mourn youth’s passing and the ticking of the 
biological clock. 
Work it through the duodecades. People used to hope (not, mind you, 
expect) to survive until age 70 (that was the Biblical three score and 
ten), but today 70 seems young and lots of 70-year-olds are getting 
married or traveling the world. DD 70, however, would refer to 84, and 
DD 100th birthdays would fall back to decent rarity, representing a 
genuinely remarkable 120 years of life in the decimal system. 
Fun to think about, but of course it’s not going to happen because of 
the technological lock—we prefer to let a system of meaning become 
obsolete rather than revising our technology. But it’s worth considering 
that the year 2000, because it requires so much new programming, 
might be the last chance in human history to rethink the way we count 
and maybe to divorce our counting of history from a Christian system 
that is only meaningful for a fraction of humanity. 
Another way to go is to ignore the numbers and notice instead that new 
developmental landmarks have appeared in the human life cycle and old 
landmarks acquire a new meaning when they occur at a different 
Rites of Passage: A Post-modern Guemica 
by Arthur Okamura 
Arthur Okamura drew CoE volution 
Quarterly’s first cover and the revival Whole 
Earth's first cover. Artist in many media, dining 
room table trickster, and generous friend of 
Whole Earth, 
moment. Becoming sexually active is 
probably less momentous than it was, but 
it’s much harder to make the decision of mar- 
riage than it used to be and it is happening later. 
Traditional ceremonies are back in fashion, perhaps because of 
the need 
to mark the new transition ritually. 
Having a first child is far more earth-shaking for both men and women 
when it happens later, when it is a fulfillment of long hope and waiting 
rather than something that follows automatically from sexual activity 
or marriage. People who have been adults for quite a while without 
children have to revise their whole sense of what adulthood means (by 
the way, DD 21 would refer to what we call age 25). Even those who are 
starting second families encounter a totally new kind of experience with 
childbearing, especially men present at delivery for the first time. 
Then there is the realization of mortality. Most human beings in past 
centuries became aware of their own mortality in childhood through the 
deaths of siblings. The point was driven home when parents died—the 
experience of losing a parent to death during childhood can be com- 
pared to the experience of parental divorce today. Psychologists used 
to speak of adolescent grandiosity including the sense of immunity to 
danger, but that illusion may be creeping upward because it is possible 
for so many people to defer facing the reality of death. At the same time, 
two other landmarks that used to come earlier now offer new meanings: 
potentially mortal illness and the death of parents. A first heart attack or 
cancer or seroconversion, when these dark woods are encountered after 
40 or 50 years of health, provokes, at least for some people, moments of 
assessment, moments to reconsider their values and decide what they 
really care about. The death of both parents signals to many, I’m next, I’d 
better decide who | am while there is still time. Whole Earth has had a 
couple of brushes with death, which, it is to be hoped, have occasioned 
some serious thought about reasons to stay alive. 
And then there are the fresh starts. Silver-haired new graduates, wrin- 
kled but glowing lovers. Above all, the ability to think of a transition 
like menopause as the beginning of a new era of energy and freedom. 
May we use our added years and fresh starts creatively, for creativity is 
surely needed. 
Happy birthday, Whole Earth. Many happy returns. co 
omposing | 
A ih 
ae 
MARY | 
CATHERANE| 
Composing a Life. Mary Catherine 
Bateson. Reissue edition, 1990; 241 pp. 
$12.95. Plume. Generations : The History 
of America’s Future, 1584 to 2069. 
William Strauss and Neil Howe. Reissue 
edition, 1992 ; 538 pp. $14. William 
Morrow. The Rites of Passage. Arnold 
Van Gennep. 1961; 198 pp. $9.95. 
University of Chicago Press. 
Rites of passage have 
lost their bound- 
aries and been infiltrated by technology 
Conception occurs in test tubes or 
surrogate wombs or is blocked by 
pills, subcutaneous fertility controls, 
condoms, etc. Abortions are common, 
and fetal tissue may live on to save 
dis- 
eased adults. Womb transmission of 
drugs and AIDS and gene screening 
and future embryo 
design are all hap- 
pening. Birth is confused by adoptions 
and DNA, circumcision controversies, 
natural vs. Caesarean or hospital births. 
The marker for adulthood used to be a 
driver's license or draft registration; now 
for black males it’s going to jail. Young 
girls with New Age moons. Drugs as 
initiation. The clitorectomy debate. 
Marriage has slipped away from devo- 
tion. “Family” is up for grabs (single, gay, 
street orphan, sequential), as is divorce. 
Old age is postponed by estrogen and 
Viagra. The life-to-death passage is 
confused by life support systems, assist- 
ed suicide, cryogenics. 
