SOFTENING THE INTRACTABLE: 
TIBET, CHINA, AND 
ETHICAL PRESSURE 
by ORVILLE SCHELL 
I first knew Orville as an elected official in a small Northern California town. He then wrote The Town That Fought To Save Itself 
and went on to become local co-owner of Niman-Schell Beef (about as fine an Angus operation as there is), He wrote an 
early book about the poisonous nature of the feedlot/stock raising business. Orville first went to China in 
1971, speaks Chinese, and has written a half dozen books on China. He's now Dean of the School of 
Journalism at UC Berkeley, often interviewed on NPR, and at work on a book about American views of 
Tibet. Few combine experience and writing as simply and elegantly. The essay is part of a longer 
FROM CHRONICLE OF THE WORLD 
Save Tibet 
INTERNATIONAL 
CAMPAIGN 
FOR 
TIBET. 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
phone-taped interview. 
The prospects for Tibet entirely 
depend on how things go in China. 
China has been very obdurate, empha- 
sizing the reunification of what they view as 
the motherland, which is really the previous 
dynastic aggregation of Han Central Chinese 
with Manchus, Mongols, Muslims in the west, 
and Tibetans. This is the last part of the 
Revolution’s program not yet repudiated, and 
the part that speaks to Chinese nationalism, 
pride, and the regaining of its territorial sover- 
eignty. So China is not in a very charitable 
mood when it comes to independence move- 
ments and even movements towards autono- 
my. In Chinese leadership circles, these issues 
just do not play very well. 
international protest presents a paradox. On 
the one hand, it certainly pushes China and 
reminds it that the world is watching. China 
needs to gain that kind of consciousness 
about what it’s doing. It can’t just do what it 
wants. It’s been isolated for so long, it’s gotten 
into some very refractory habits. On the other 
hand, it also inflames the situation because it 
links the Tibetan question up with what the 
Chinese view as outside interference, further 
abridgments of its sovereignty. So, at the 
same time that it helps, it also hinders. It 
creates a very difficult situation for anyone 
seeking resolution. 
The Tibet/China question has been absolutely 
intractable, and it will remain intractable until 
it ceases being intractable; and that moment 
will come when the leadership in Beijing — 
when sombody or somebodies—decide that 
there’s mileage in resolving this issue because 
it’s giving China too bad a reputation in the 
world at large. As I’ve said earlier, it doesn’t 
play in leadership circles yet because any- 
body who seems soft on the issue of Tibetan 
independence or autonomy, anyone in the 
leadership, risks being accused of being 
virtually traitorous. 
The Dalai Lama has bent over backwards to 
the point of practically falling over to try to 
make every concession he can without in 
effect immolating his own cause. But there’s a 
limit to what one side can do; like a bad mar- 
riage, if one partner makes all the conces- 
sions, the other very easily becomes accus- 
tomed to assuming that resolution is only on 
the side and in the hands of the other person. 
Some Tibetans are hopeful that the 
Dalai Lama’s concessions will lead 
to some sort of reconciliation. 
Other Tibetans are quite angry. 
They view their cause of inde- 
pendence as being compro- 
mised by any acknowledgments 
of Chinese sovereignty in 
exchange for the Dalai Lama 
returning back home and saving 
Tibetan culture. So it’s a very, very per- 
ilous edge that the Dalai Lama has to 
walk on. 
Most Chinese, whether in Tibet or outside 
Tibet have a rather simple view of 
things. They are very much victims of 
their own propaganda: they view Tibet 
as theirs. It is one of the great tragedies 
of a press that is not free that they have 
very little association with the notion of 
ethnic self-determination or other ver- 
sions of Sino-Tibetan relations. It’s a 
very complicated subject; the Chinese 
tend to be rather one-dimensional in 
their views of Tibet. 
manipulate and stifle it, rather than to cre- 
atively use the various forces at hand in an 
imaginative and positive way. 
Recently there’s been a very large, economi- 
cally based migration of Han Chinese into 
Tibet. Tibet is in effect now gaining an actual 
market economy, rather than just a barter 
economy, and this is almost exclusively being 
run by Chinese. | think the attitude of most 
Tibetans is that the Chinese are colonials. 
Migration has brought some intermarriage, 
which tends to be difficult. In general, for 
Tibetans to get ahead, they basically have 
to learn Chinese and do long stints in China, 
and in a certain kind of very self-defeating 
sense, deny their own language, heritage, 
and ethnic ties. 
| am not particularly hopeful, but I’m also 
mindful that there could come a time—and it 
will probably come very quickly —when some- 
one in China will decide that it’s time to 
reverse the verdict on the Beijing massacre of 
1989, reverse the verdict on the famine that 
killed thirty million people in the early sixties, 
reverse the verdict on Tibet, and find some 
new angle of repose. It’s not a difficult prob- 
lem to solve. It’s only difficult to solve from 
the perspective of Chinese sensitivities over 
sovereignty, and encroachment and all. The 
solution will only come when China gets a 
much more imaginative and independent- 
minded leader, someone who says, “Listen, 
this is absurd, China has suffered too much. 
The slings and arrows of world opinion are 
unnecessarily against us. There’s much to be 
gained and little to be lost by resolving the 
Tibet situation in a way satisfactory for every- 
one.” They couldn’t have a more reasonable 
and cooperative partner than the Dalai Lama. | 
mean, God knows, Tibet’s leader could be a 
Saddam Hussein or someone like that. CO 
The Chinese may be waiting for the Dalai Lama 
to die, and, after that happens, then the exile 
movement won’t really have any figurehead 
around whom to coalesce. | think the situation 
will become more violent. The Chinese over- 
look the enormous potential to avoid violence 
should the Dalai Lama return to Tibet. It is 
incipiently quite a violent situation; there is 
enormous frustration, and should he die, | 
think there may be some huge upwelling of 
very frustrated sentiment. It’s a kind of typical 
myopic Chinese view that the best way to 
manage a Situation is to control it, to try to 
Cultural Survival Quarterly. $45 membership includes quarterly magazine. 96 Mt. Auburn Street, Cambridge, MA 
02138, 617/441-5400, www.cs.org. The Forest People. Colin Turnbull. 1961; 295 pp. $12. Simon & Schuster. Custer 
Died For Your Sins: An Indian Manifesto. Vine Deloria, Jr. 1970; 278 pp. $14.95. University of Oklahoma Press. 
Mandate of Heaven: A New Generation of Entrepreneurs, Dissidents, Bohemians, and Technocrats Lays Claim to 
China’s Future. Orville Schell. 1995; 464 pp. $14.50. Simon & Schuster. Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian 
History of the American West. Dee Brown. 1970; 458 pp. 14.95. Henry Holt. Genocide. Leo Kuper. 1988; 256 pp. $17. 
Yale University Press. 
