by TONY SeRRA 
judiciary in this phone interview. 
The late sixties, when | started prac- 
tice, were marked by a great number 
of salient political causes, embodied in 
demonstrations in Berkeley and San 
Francisco. | came to represent the White 
Panthers, the Black Panthers, the Symbionese 
Liberation Army, and a number of other groups like 
the New Liberation Front. | confronted a phenomenon then which we 
hoped would diminish, but which has instead increased steadfastly. 1’ll 
call that phenomenon “The Secret Police Motif: Orwellian Prophesy 
Fulfilled,” or “The KGB-ing of America.” 
INFORMANTS 
In every criminal case in our alleged system of justice, some form of spy 
mentality is now present. There are degrees of informants. We probably 
have more nomenclature for informants than does any other culture. We 
have citizen informants, confidential informants, confidential reliable 
informants, unnamed anonymous informants, informants who are pre- 
cipient, informants who are participatory, informants who are merely 
eyewitnesses, informants who are co-defendants, informants who pre- 
cipitate charges by reverse stings. We are confronting informants and 
cooperating witnesses at every level: preliminary hearings, grand juries, 
and state and federal jury trials. Our system of justice is permeated by 
the witness or the provocateur who is paid by government for a role in 
either revealing or instigating crime. It’s probably the greatest tragedy of 
my career, in terms of whether or not justice is really pursued and 
whether truth is a foundation for actualizing justice. 
| reason: if the defense went out and bought witnesses—paid $10,000 
for one witness, $20,000 for another, and $50,000 for another for their 
testimony 
—it would be laughable from a jury’s point of view. They would 
soundly reject that type of witness; we would be called obstruction-of- 
justice defendants and the lawyers would be prosecuted. Obviously, you 
can’t do that. On the other hand, in every major case the informant or 
cooperating witness gets something far more precious than money; they 
get liberty. They get twenty years or ten years knocked off their sen- 
tences. They get to settle in a new lifestyle with a new identity and 
obtain a job or relocation in the federal or state witness protection pro- 
gram. The government is paying their witnesses with freedom. The wit- 
nesses have to deliver what the government wants or they don’t get that 
bargain. As a consequence, the courts are rife with false testimony; 
every case is polluted by informants. The adversary system is tainted 
because everyone rolls or becomes a government witness and therefore 
there is no opposition. Constitutional rights aren’t litigated because 
cases are determined by how much evidence an informant or corroborat- 
ing witness can give you. At every level, independent judiciary is eroding. 
It’s something we confront every day. People in the subculture experi- 
ence paranoia because they never know who’s a spy or an informant. 
There’s paranoia in the court system because you never know whether 
your codefendant is recording you. There’s paranoia among the lawyers 
because you never know whether your client is rolling behind your back 
and recording you. In my opinion, the singularly most unexpected and 
singularly most devastating aspect of our system of criminal jurispru- 
dence is the use of the informant. 
THE GRAND JURY 
Back in the sixties, the government utilized the grand jury to some small 
degree. Today, every federal case—99.9 percent of all federal cases— 
involves indictment by grand jury. That means no preliminary hearing, no 
discovery prior to indictment, no confrontation, no lawyer present on 
behalf of the accused. The accused isn’t there, and doesn’t see, hear, 
confront, or cross-examine his or her accusers. The grand jury system by 
its nature is secretive; it is considered a felony to reveal anything that 
occurred or what your testimony was. 
We have a kind of misplaced historical procedure. We inherited the 
grand jury from English Common Law, where they used it to go after the 
lords and persons who were otherwise above the law. In a sense it was 
needed and justified then. But in our country, it is used now as an instru- 
ment of terror. Everyone fears it. You have relatives testifying against 
One another. With no confidentiality privilege with respect to family 
members other than husbands and wives, you have parents called to 
testify against their children. Children are called to testify against their 
KGB-ING AMERICA 
Tony Serra has spent his professional life trying to insure that the law is applied as fairly to outcaste as to mainstream Americans. Hooty Croy, for 
instance, was an American Indian who was on death row when Tony took over his case, Croy was then acquitted at a second trial. Tony defended Huey 
Newton of the Black Panthers, the Hell's Angels, and Russell Little of the Symbionese Liberation Army. He has doggedly fought to insure that pun- 
ishments truly fit the crime and do not become excessive political tools of repression. He is perhaps best known as the warrior lawyer defending citi- 
zens charged with marijuana possession or dealing. One of the most formidable trial lawyers of the century, Tony defends the independence of the 
parents, and brother against sister, and so on. It lacks all due process. It 
is immoral. It is an instrument of oppression. It’s another secret tool of an 
expanding executive branch. 
MANDATORY SENTENCING 
“Three strikes” types of penal laws are prevalent both in federal and state 
jurisdictions. Beyond that, in most federal cases, at least in drug cases, 
but spilling over into other arenas, the sentence is really set by the leg- 
islative process and by the executive—that is, the law enforcement agen- 
cies. They mandate what sentence is going to occur by how they file 
charges. The judiciary lacks power or discretion to vary much, if at all, 
from the mandatory sentencing and its attendant guidelines. You have a 
fatal shrinking of the balance of powers. We’re all taught that our consti- 
tutional form of government works because of its tripartite system: execu- 
tive, legislative, judicial. When mandatory sentencing occurs, the legisla- 
tive, actualized by the executive, has swallowed up the judiciary. We do 
not have an independent judiciary. We have a rubber-stamp judiciary. 
We never anticipated in the sixties that one-third of the adult black popu- 
lation in the United States of America would be either in custody or on 
probation or parole. We have eliminated a whole generation of blacks by 
incarcerating the youth; the ugly head of racism appears both as built 
in—implied conditions in the law itself—and in how people are charged. 
So you have a revisitation of something that we thought was 
eliminated in the sixties: the weakening of the judiciary as an 
independent body, and the recurrence of racism wedded to 
mandatory sentences that lock people away for inordinate 
periods of time. 
We all know the platitude that our country presently has more 
people in jails or prisons than any other country in the history 
of the world. That was unpredictable in the sixties. We thought 
things were getting better. We thought that more freedom was 
going to occur, more understanding, more compassion, more 
brotherhood and sisterhood, more actualization of constitu- 
tional rights, a more equal division of resources. Those motifs 
of the sixties have been sadly aborted. What we have instead is 
approaching a police state that is investigated by undercover 
officers and informants, with judges’ hands tied and prosecutors 
obtaining prison sentences that we could never have conceived. 
BAIL 
The notion of bail is vastly eroding. We have a concept now built into the 
law called “preventative detention,” a euphemism that probably only 
totalitarian states could create. But what that means is that in most major 
cases, there’s a presumption against bail. They don’t have to give you 
bail. We’re taught as children that in anything other than a capital 
offense, reasonable bail must be afforded. A presumption of innocence 
underlies our system of criminal jurisprudence; we have a strong history 
of not holding people in custody until their guilt or innocence has been 
determined. That’s not true any more. Right now, the custodial status in 
preconvicted sentences—people who have not yet been sentenced—is 
astronomical and the jails are filled not only with convicted people, but 
with unconvicted people. We think that there are laws that establish 
rights to a speedy trial. In both federal and state cases, people languish 
in custody one or two years awaiting trial. It’s what I’ll call another plot, 
an agony visited upon criminal justice. In the sixties, we were naive, we 
were optimistic, and we believed that reform and new and enlightened 
ideas would ventilate through the judicial system. Instead, in most areas, 
the system has clamped down. 
Some of us are crying out. The legal profession cries out like the miner’s 
canary. We're saying, “The government is too strong. Beware!” “We're los- 
ing constitutional rights daily. Beware!” “The jury system is being poi- 
soned by propaganda. They’re not fair and impartial any more. Beware!” 
“Racism is creeping back into our system of justice. Beware!” 
We hope that if we at least keep an eye on the situation and report itina 
dramatic fashion, then another generation may do what we thought we 
were doing in the sixties, and swing the pendulum back. Because if the 
pendulum doesn’t swing —judicially and court-wise 
—we are approaching 
a totalitarian state never before experienced in this country. ©© 
Manufacturing 
Consent: 
The 
Political 
Economy of the Mass Media. 
Edward 
S. 
Herman and Noam Chomsky. 1988; 412 pp. 
$17. Pantheon 
Books. 
Kurdistan: 
In the 
Shadow of History. Susan Meiselas. 1997; 388 
pp. $100. Random House. 
ANUPACTURING 
=. 
(ONGENT 
Seats 
x= 
econom 
ee 
Px. 
Ih 
Turkish woman on trial for aiding the 
Kurdish struggle 
The Commanding Heights. Daniel Yergin. 
1998; 457 pp. $26. Simon & Schuster. 
The Economics of Money, Banking, and 
Financial Markets. Frederick S. Mishkin. 
1998; 732 pp. $71.25. Addison-Wesley. 
Post-Capitalist Society. Peter F. Drucker. 
1993; 232 pp. $13.50. HarperBusiness. 
pari werd, 
Ha" 
ua! 
yay WARE 
a 
ys Wane yar Moe! 
