THE COMPUTATIONAL METAPHOR 
by KEVIN KELLY 
Kevin Kelly was editor and publisher of our magazine from 1984 to 1990. He's a daring scout, spotting and reporting back on science and celebrations in 
aneo-biological civilization infiltrated on every level by technological inventions. He helped found the WELL, the Hackers Conference, and Cyberthon, 
and is executive editor of Wired. See our spring, 1999 issue for his second book, New Rules for the New Economy. His first book, Out of Control: The 
New Biology of Machines, Social Systems and the Economic World, can be read at www.well.com/user/kk/OutOfControll. 
The least-noticed trends are usually the most subversive ones. First on 
my list for an undetected upheaval is our collective journey toward the 
belief that the universe is a computer. 
Already the following views are widespread: thinking is a type of compu- 
tation, DNA is software, evolution is an algorithmic process. If we keep 
going we will quietly arrive at the notion that all materials and all 
processes are actually forms of computation. Our final destination is a 
view that the atoms of universe are fundamentally intangible bits. As the 
legendary physicist John Wheeler sums up the idea: “Its are bits.” 
| first became aware of this increasingly commonly held (but not yet artic- 
ulated) trend at the first Artificial Life Conference in 1987, where biologi- 
cal reproduction and evolution were described by researchers in wholly 
computer-science terms. The surprise wasn’t that such organic things 
could be given mathematical notations, because scientists 
have been doing that for hundreds of 
years. The surprise 
was that biological things could be simulated by 
computers so well. Well enough that such simula- 
tions displayed unexpected biological proper- 
ties themselves. From this work sprung such 
fashionable patterns as cellular automata, 
fractals, and genetic algorithms. 
The next step in this trend was to jettison 
the computer matrix and reimagine biological 
processes simply in terms of computer logic. But 
to do this, first computation had to be stripped 
from computers as well. Starting with the pioneering 
work of Van Neumann and Turing, 
a number of mathe- 
maticians concluded that the essential process of computing 
was so elementary and powerful that it could be understood to happen 
in all kinds of systems. Or, in other words, the notion of computation was 
broadened so wide that almost any process or thing could be described 
in computational terms. Including galaxies, molecules, mathematics, 
emotions, rain forests, and genes. 
Is this embrace just a trick of language? Yes, but that is the unseen 
revolution. We are compiling a vocabulary and a syntax that is able to 
HOPI 
- KEYI 
HOPI - 
PAHE 
ENGLISH - ONE WORD (WATER);HOPI 
- TWO WORDS 
FROM LANGUAGE, THOUGHT, AND REALITY 
describe in a single language all kinds of 
phenomenon that have escaped a common 
language until now. It is a new universal 
metaphor. It has more juice in it than previous 
metaphors: Freud’s dream state, Darwin’s variety, Marx’s progress, or the 
oe 
EREBRAL CODE 
—- 
Age of Aquarius. And it has more power than anything else in science at 
the moment. In fact the computational metaphor may eclipse mathemat- 
ics as a form of universal notation. 
This quickening of the new metaphor was made crystal clear recently in 
the work of mathematicians and physics who have been dreaming up 
the next great thing after silicon chips: quantum computers. Quantum 
computers lie at the convergence of two “impossible” fields, the world 
of the impossibly small (quantum states), and the world of the impossi- 
bly ghostly (bits). Things get strange here very fast, but one thing is 
strangest of all. In the effort to create mathematical theories 
of how matter works at levels way below subatomic 
particles, and in the effort to actually build com- 
puters that operate in this realm, some scientists 
have found that using the language of bits best 
explains the behavior of matter. Their conclu- 
sion: Its are bits. Young Einsteins such as 
mathematician/theoretical physicist David 
Deutsch are now in the very beginnings of a 
long process of redescribing all of physics 
in terms of computer theory. Should they suc- 
ceed, we would see the material universe and 
all that it holds as a form of computation. 
There will be many people who will resist this idea 
fiercely, for many good reasons. They will point out that the 
universe isn’t really a computer, only that it may act as if it is one. But 
once the metaphor of computation infiltrates physics and biology 
deeply, there is no difference between those two statements. It’s the 
metaphor that wins. 
New Rules for the New Economy: 10 Radical 
Strategies for a Connected World. Kevin 
Kelly. 1998; 164 pp. $19.95. Viking. The 
Cerebral Code. William H. Calvin. 1998; 
256 pp. $14. MIT Press. The Pattern on the 
Stone. Daniel Hillis. 1998; 164 pp. $21. 
Basic Books. The Savage Mind. Claude 
Lévi-Strauss. 1966; 290 pp. $16.95. 
University of Chicago Press. Language, 
Thought, and Reality: Selected Writings of 
Benjamin Lee Whorf. Benjamin Lee Whorf 
and John B. Carroll, ed. 1964; 278 pp. 
$17.50. MIT Press. 
And as far as | can tell the computational metaphor is already halfway 
to winning. co 
If the top center Beethoven is 
replaced by a Bach, then the uncertain 
hexagon receives four doses of Bach 
for every two of Beethoven. 
A 4-by-2 boundary ought to be a more 
stable one than a 3-by-3 arrangement. 
FROM THE CEREBRAL CODE 
When is a word or synonym or pun a metaphor? Whorf compares Hopi, Eskimo, and English to illustrate 
words that other cultures 
would take as 
metaphors. Bill Calvin tries to reduce musical notes (not words) to “neural gateways” between Bach and Beethoven. DNA is the current metaphor for 
genetic language. But what about RNA? 
