32 
People, Land, and Community: Collected 
E.F. Schumacher Society Lectures. Hilgard 
Hannum, ed. 1997; 352 pp. $18. Yale 
University 
Press. 
Including 
pieces 
by 
Cathrine Sneed, John Todd and Nancy Jack 
Todd. The Once and Future Forest: A Guide 
to Forest Restoration Strategies. Leslie 
Jones Sauer. 1998; 381 pp. $30. Island 
Press. Small is Beautiful: Economics As If 
People Mattered. E.F. Schumacher. Second 
edition, 1998; 320 pp. $19.95. Hartley and 
Marks. The Growing Edge: News and 
Information 
for 
Indoor 
and 
Outdoor 
Growers. $26.95/year (six issues). Tom 
Alexander, publisher. 341 SW 2nd Street, 
Corvallis, 
OR 
97333, 
541/757-8477, 
www.growingedge.com. 
Gaviotas: 
A 
Village 
to Reinvent 
the World. 
Alan 
Weisman. 1998; 231 pp. $22.95. Chelsea 
Green, PO Box 428, White River Junction, 
VT 05001, 802/295-6300. Ancient Futures: 
Learning from Ladakh. Helena Norberg- 
Hodge. 1991; 204 pp. $12. Sierra Club 
Books. 
Wer 
Feople Land an d Community 
o-} \ \(\ 
y 
\jelena Norbe 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
Project, Pier 28, San Francisco, CA 94105, 415/243-8558, wwwgardenproject.org. 
While | say | started The Garden Project, | feel like that’s not com- 
plete. | started it with the help of a lot of people—the prisoners as well 
as people who have wanted to help. What really is for me the most 
important part of our project is that we have people who are in need of 
restoration and they are the ones working very hard to restore them- 
selves and also to restore their neighborhoods, to restore their commu- 
nities, to restore their families. That’s very important to me. 
The project has three parts. The first is the program in the jail. Since | 
started it in 1982 more than 10,000 prisoners have been in the program. 
Most of the people in our jails and prisons throughout the country are 
there because they’re poor. They’re there because they’ve sold and used 
drugs. Unfortunately, they’re there because they’re people of color. 
We’ve grown a lot of food that we’ve given to soup kitchens and senior 
centers and community centers. But growing food and giving it to these 
places is what’s helped to restore the prisoners and the participants in 
the program, because they’re able to give something. They’re able to 
give of themselves. Over the years people have asked me, “Why don’t 
we sell the food instead of giving it to the community centers?” You 
have to give to live. In giving the food they’ve worked very hard to 
grow, people begin to care about themselves. They begin to care 
about other people. 
In growing food for the soup kitchens and for the jail, they begin to learn 
about their bodies. They begin to learn about health. Over the years I’ve 
always asked people, when you got arrested what were you eating? 
Generally they say the same thing. | don’t know if you’ve noticed, but 
when the poor get money they go to McDonald’s. They take their kids 
there. It’s a source of pride. What I’m seeing is more and more people 
who aren’t eating or cooking food at home. Having talked to thousands 
of prisoners over the years, | have concluded that their diet is why 
they’re using drugs. This is-why they’re craving crack. They were not eat- 
ing vegetables. Many of them have never eaten vegetables that didn’t 
come out of a can or weren’t frozen. In San Francisco, the only store in 
the neighborhood where most of the people in our jail live doesn’t have 
fresh vegetables; most of the stuff is pre-packaged. That’s what this 
community of over 58,000 people has available to it. 
We’re really trying to change that. With the Garden Project, which is the 
second part of our program, we grow food and try to get it to the com- 
munity that needs it, where it’s grown. Our garden is about half an acre. 
It’s here in Bayview-Hunters Point, a community mostly of African- 
Americans. There are at least two Superfund sites in Bayview-Hunters 
Point. When most people there go to shop, they go to the corner store. 
It’s a liquor store. So | think it’s the role of our project to offer food to 
this community, which desperately needs it. We invite people to come to 
the garden. We invite seniors to come. When the seniors come to pick 
vegetables, they see the same people who might have been on the cor- 
ner trying to take their purses, or knock them out and rob them. They 
~ see that the same people are now giving back and trying to help. That 
changes something for them. The prisoners begin to see and feel badly 
about what they have done to support their habit. The garden does that, 
growing this food does that. 
The garden also offers a place for parents. Most people who are in jail or 
prison are parents. Instead of leaving their children in the housing pro- 
jects to come to work, or deciding that they can’t come to work because 
they don’t have child care, they bring their children to the garden. The 
kids run through the garden and pull up everything and, | tell you, this 
makes it a little difficult, but it’s well worth it. 
There’s a kid that I’m particularly fond of. His name is Paradise. Paradise 
is Samoan. | will never forget a couple of years ago when his father was 
supposed to meet me to work really early in the morning at the garden. | 
was there, sitting in the van, and | heard Paradise crying in his father’s 
car. | immediately thought his father must be hitting him or something, 
because unfortunately that had happened before. | got out of the van 
and asked Paradise what was going on. He was crying and crying and 
crying. His father just threw up his hands and said, “I don’t know what’s 
THE GARDEN PROJECT 
by CATHRINE SNEED 
Cathrine Sneed works on the frontlines of poverty, drugs, prisons, and family/personal renewals, Her tools are remarkable horticultural, legal, and 
counseling skills as well as perserverance and insight. Overwhelmed by good works, Cathrine offered us her talk from the 1998 Bioneers confer- 
ence (wwwhioneers.com). This is about half of it. The full tape is available for $10 ($12 postpaid) from Conference Recording Service, 1308 Gilman 
Street, Berkeley, CA 94706, 510/527-3600, www.conferencerecording.com. The Garden Project always needs more outside support. The Garden 
wrong with him.” | said, “What’s wrong, Paradise, what’s wrong?” He 
said, “I don’t want to eat what my father brought.” | asked, “What did he 
bring?” He said, “He brought me donuts. | don’t want donuts. My 
teacher said that’s not nutritious. | don’t want to eat that.” This kid was 
maybe six years old then. | said, “Well, Paradise, | brought some straw- 
berries and some peaches and some bagels and so let’s have them.” He 
grabbed the bag. He was just so happy to have something other than 
donuts to eat. His father had been a drug user for many years; he’s a sin- 
gle parent and over the years it’s been a struggle to save Paradise. “Take 
these greens home and cook them. Feed the kids salad. It’s food.” That’s 
not his orientation. We’re trying to teach people about nutrition, to teach 
people about health, and not just by lecturing to them, but by showing 
them. So we grow, make, and eat food in the garden. The prisoners and 
the former prisoners are learning to eat vegetables and this really offers 
them a way to feed their families. 
The third part of our program is the Tree Corps, which was started as a 
way to deal with the fact that in Bayview-Hunters Point, and in other 
places in San Francisco, we have streets with no trees. None. When we 
plant the trees it makes a difference because the neighbors, the people 
that live in the community, see people who need jobs. So, the vandalism 
rate for our trees is actually much lower than for the trees that the City 
plants. When the trees survive, that tells me that what we’re doing 
works. Also it works because it puts people to work. It’s letting 
Paradise’s father and other people bring a check home every week 
instead of relying on welfare or drug sales to survive. 
More than ail three of these things, what I’m trying to do is help people 
to see what’s happening in our jails and in our prisons. I’m not alone in 
this. A lot of people have done this all over the country. As citizens we 
are allowing our government to spend an amazing amount of money 
to keep people, mostly people of color, in jail for the crime of being 
poor. There has to be a time where we say as a community that in 
order to heal our community we need to involve the people who have 
hurt the community. 
The other day a man that I’ve known from the jail for the last fifteen or 
so years came to our office. | hadn’t seen him in ten years. | started 
telling him how the program had changed from the time when we 
worked in the jail. “So what’s up with you? How’s your family?” “Well, | 
don’t see my family anymore,” he said. “My son died in San Quentin ina 
gang fight.” | remembered his son. | said, “But | haven’t seen you in ten 
years. Where have you been?” He said, “Oh, I’ve been in and out. I’ve 
been to State Prison, back and forth. I’m still not off parole.” So, in ten 
years this man has been on the street probably a total of three months 
and then he’s back. James’ crime is being addicted to crack. That’s his 
crime. I’m not a mathematician, but it seems like a lot of money to send 
James back and forth to State Prison for ten years. We’re talking $25,000 
or more each year, when you calculate what being in jail does to the 
family that’s involved. There’s no one bringing any money home. Most of 
the children | know whose parents have been to jail end up in jail them- 
selves. The cycle just continues. 
This cycle is spinning out of control and bringing more and more com- 
munities into it while we pay for it. At some point we have to say this 
doesn’t make sense, and stop it. At some point we have to look at the 
fact that there are children who aren’t eating in America. They’re not eat- 
ing food. They’re eating garbage. These same children are going to grow 
up, and when they grow up I’ll bet you many of them will follow the path 
of their parents. They’ll be addicted to drugs. 
In California we spend more on prisons than we do on our schools. That 
is criminal. We’re wasting our money, we’re wasting our energy, and 
we’re misdirected when we think that the problem of crime is the prob- 
lem of people of color going awry. That’s not what’s happening. What’s 
happening is that the young men and young women in our jails and pris- 
ons are there mostly because they’re addicts and because they’re poor. 
And if we can’t do anything about that, then we won't restore the earth. 
We need to restore the people first. CO 
