CONSUMING STUFF 
WHEN, IF EVER, IS ENOUGH ENOUGH? 
by STEVE BARNETT 
Steve Barnett is our great gadfly from the corporate world, a prized and generous member of our editorial board. He is vice president for global consumer 
trends at Citicorp. We shared time in Paris studying anthropology with Louis DuMont and Claude Lévi-Strauss. Steve lived in small villages in India and has, 
if anyone has, experienced and thought pragmatically about the gargantuan distances between very rich and very poor. 
JEAN - Can’t help noticing how you’ve changed since we both read Whole 
Earth in college. Two cars plus an SUV, a voluminous house, home 
entertainment center, Separate freezer, three PCs—are you happier? 
RACHEL - Surprise you? | am. Always wanted some of these goodies. 
Other things we need as a family. My husband and | both drive to 
work, the computers help the kids’ school grades, and they need lots 
of space for their soccer stuff and just because they’re kids. Hey, why am 
| justifying these purchases? 
JEAN - Because of their consequences. Our family 
lives with lots less. We have more time and energy to 
do what matters most. All of us think for ourselves — 
we’re not pushed around by ads or the culture’s 
insistence on how to live. We bike when we can, and 
if you don’t provide excess space, you’d be surprised 
at how efficient your kids become. Plus, we feel more 
responsive to the global implications of never-end- 
ing consumerism. In short, Rachel, we’re a better 
model for our children. 
RACHEL - Very pious, very PC. Haven’t | heard this before? Dictate 
priorities. Force a kind of global egalitarianism. Your ideas are a throw- 
back to sixties radicalism 
— Marxism transformed into Earth First. “The 
West must shrink its consumption ‘til we match slightly better-off 
non-Western economies.” We live too far from work and school to 
even think of biking. 
We humans don’t know enough to support your doom-and-gloom. 
We can’t predict the future effects of consumption. Efficiencies of pro- 
duction continue to limit environmental consequences. The more the 
consumption, the greater the incentive for efficiency. Nanotechnology, 
bioengineering, superconductivity, and who knows what else could 
make increased consumption and sustainability compatible. Amory 
Lovins says we could use one-fourth of the energy and materials we do 
now to make the same amount of consumer goods. Some say we'll be 
able to reduce all that by a factor of ten. 
JEAN - If we don’t know enough to support my position, then we definite- 
ly don’t know enough to support yours. You accuse me of being pious, 
yet your god is a just-in-time techno-fix. How convenient and prescient: 
new technologies will be perfectly suited to salvage ever-expanding con- 
sumer desires. Technologies’ impact on overall consumption isn’t clear. 
This is just techno-astrology, rationality pushed into a future that cannot 
be predicted. Preemptive caution is the only course that makes sense. 
As for the sixties radical charge, | plead semi-guilty. But your ideol- 
ogy—“you are what you consume” 
—is an ideology stuffed down the 
throats of people by pervasive advertising. It all boils down to the shal- 
low notion of having a lifestyle rather than having a life. It’s an infinite 
regress of envy where enough is never enough. Rachel, you choose to 
live far from work, you choose how many children you have. Other 
choices are possible. 
RACHEL - Your hidden agenda’s revealed. Voluntary 
simplicity. Or perhaps you are more dogmatic and 
want a government-imposed “voluntary” sim- 
by J. BALOWIN 
This toolbox commenced in 1949 with a lonely 
Sears hammer, and grew Slowly, along with the 
experience of its builders and keepers. It has 
become a highly refined and capable collection, 
living up to my requirements as a design-solution- 
inspiring “Three-Dimensional Sketchpad.” Installed in an 
unfolding walk-in van, the ton of tools and the compact space to work them 
in have gone where they’re needed for more than twenty years. Whole Earth 
chronicled the adventure in Issues No. 5 and 9, and in the 1985 Essential 
Whole Earth Catalog. Always aiding and abetting evolution, the portable 
toolbox/shop is now virtually bigger and conceptually smaller. 
It’s serving as the local do-tank parked behind our chicken coop 
home. The only recent additions are a new Bosch battery drill and a cast- 
iron Delta scroll saw we needed to execute a complex scale model of a 
plicity. Maybe the Cultural Revolution! 
What would you substitute as an 
acceptable “ideology”? Gaia worship, 
small is beautiful, a William Morris-esque 
return to village craft? Have you tried to imag- 
ine the kind of government that could 
force such a profound shift in values? You think consumerism is “false 
consciousness,” as if it’s merely a sleight-of-hand substitute for the 
search for genuine meaning. But what is genuine? 
And how can you know, let alone impose it on oth- 
ers? We don’t “choose” where to live in a vacuum. 
There are housing costs, taxes, school quality; 
things like that matter. 
Enough, in fact, is never enough. 
Consumption does confer benefits and | want 
my kids to have every advantage | can give them. 
We didn’t know in the sixties that we’d be buying 
personal computers, and we don’t know now what 
the equivalent of computers will be in the future. 
Who knows? Perhaps in the end virtual consumption will reduce actual 
consumption and take care of some of your environmental concerns. Not 
only is increasing consumption the only way we can think of right now to 
improve the lot of newly industrializing countries, it will probably trans- 
form itself out of the problems which so concern you. 
FROM MATERIAL WORLD 
JEAN - So-called advanced countries will not cut back on their material 
wealth nor share their educational resources to put right these inequities. 
I’ve lost that idealism. They could, of course. But post-modern people are 
unwilling to give even of their surplus to those in need. Yes, | am probably 
among the very few who would deny themselves material wealth in favor 
of simplicity. It’s not Marxism nor Earth First. | now see the economic 
explosion is due to the immaturity of the human soul, which cannot do 
much to overcome its egocentric impulses. That’s what | want my kids to 
learn: the contentment of less hungry egos; the quietness and beauty of 
the human spirit, if not of Nature, without the need to dress it up all the 
time. Buying is not being. 
RACHEL - There are learned folks who argue that we can consume 
much more. But | don’t think they’ll convince you. Your worst nightmare 
is people like me who both love and need to consume, who deny bad 
consequences, and who think the spread of market economies is the 
only hope for the world’s poor. The worst of slums and low wages will 
pass, just as they have in Western countries. 
JEAN - Mutual nightmares then. | would restrict your unbridled access to 
what are, in effect, the planet’s resources, whether by a pricing system 
that takes into account environmental costs or by government rules or, 
my best hope, through personal transformation. Muddling through isn’t 
a guaranteed solution, especially since it doesn’t change the way we 
think about who we are and our place on Earth. 
RACHEL - We’ve muddled through successfully in the past. Maybe | 
should be more scared of overshooting sustainability. Maybe it’s our 
age, Jean, but muddling through seems like the only option left. co 
POSTSCRIPT: 
waar's HAPPENED TO 
JB ANO LIZ'S HIQHLY 
EVOLVED TOOLDOX SHOPTRUCK? 
Cutting through Spiritual Materialism 
Chogyam Trungpa. 1973; 250 pp. $14. 
Shambhala. Material World: A Global 
Family Portrait Peter Menzel. 1995; 255 
pp. $25. Sierra Club Books. Stuff: The 
Secret Lives of Everyday Things John C. 
Ryan and Alan Thein Durning. 1997; 86 
pp. $9.95. Northwest Environment Watch, 
1402 Third Avenue, Seattle, WA 98101, 
206/447-1880, www.speakeasy.org/new. 
barge-mounted Living Machine (see p. 33). The 
1958 walk-in van part is a bit too venerable for 
highway use now, and tires are no longer available. 
It'll probably get left behind (minus the tools and 
benches) on our next move. That will be sad, but it 
brought tool capability to a variety of experiments 
going on around the USA in the sixties, seventies 
and eighties, just as it was designed to do. That 
need is pretty much gone with the wind. Sigh. 
The old beast would still work fine in town; 
someday we'll probably sell it to a street act need- 
ing a portable stage with secret trapdoors. co 
