DESIQNING/RESTORING 
VITAL CITIES 
by JANe Jacoes 
Jane Jacobs's The Death and Life of Great American Cities changed urban planning and policy by simply asking: what makes a vital city? She's 
followed through in her home, Toronto, leading a successful plan to stop both a major expressway and the demolition of an entire down- 
town neighborhood. Cities and the Wealth of Nations (1984) connected city vitality to global economics. Systems of Survival (Whole Earth 
No. 94) displayed the minds of guardians vs. traders in the economies of the world. She is now, at 82, finishing her book on The Nature of 
Economy. She was willing to be included in this issue of Whole Earth only if Stewart interviewed her (she loves his How Buildings Learn) 
JJ: Cities are the chief motors of economies. You can’t talk about 
economies without talking, at least obliquely, about cities. Any human set- 
tlement is an economic equivalent to a local ecosystem. Just as ecology is 
the economy of nature. I’ve just been looking at the same thing from the 
opposite point of view—the nature of economies. 
SB: Presumably that steps you right up to the question of global economy. 
JJ: Yes. The nature of economies comes to that. But people want these pre- 
scriptions. You can’t prescribe for a global economy any more than you 
can get a handle on prescribing for a global ecosystem. Also, if you get 
too abstract about these things they become meaningless. You can’t put 
everything in one ball of wax without it becoming abstract. 
SB: Is the Internet something that is interesting to you in relation to all 
this? 
JJ: It interests me as one more remarkable self-organized system, but 
there are lots of other self-organized systems. When the civil mail system 
began, it was self-organized and was only 
later taken up by institutions and system- 
atized. It got quite organized by people 
who would go to taverns where they knew 
that travelers were and earn a little money 
by picking up letters to deliver, especially 
around waterfronts or coaching stations. 
Then people began organizing themselves 
as post offices and postal carriers. One big 
difference was that the person who 
received the letter paid, which was a guar- 
antee that it would be delivered. 
SB: The history of 
the Internet repeated 
some of that because it was first created 
as a way to share computer resources 
between big computation centers. It never worked for that. It was immedi- 
ately put to use for email. That’s when the whole thing took off. 
JJ: So this is not unprecedented at all in principle. | used the mail system 
because it’s such an analog, but in fact almost everything when it starts is 
self-organized. Of course when mail systems were institutionalized they 
made some improvements like imposing honesty on the carriers, which 
made it possible to pay for the letter before it was delivered. 
SB: I’m involved in a project trying to build a 10,000 year clock and a 
10,000 year library and some artifacts that help people think long term. 
We got to looking at institutions that have existed for a long time, like 
more than a thousand years. National governments don’t qualify, by and 
large. Corporations don’t qualify. Those that come up are pretty much reli- 
gions and a few universities and cities. 
JJ: Cities are about the most durable things we have. People think of them 
as superficial things, but they aren’t. They’re very, very basic. Rural places, 
which are considered more fundamental and more basic, actually are 
hangers-on of cities in most cases. | explained that in Cities and the 
Wealth of Nations and in The Economy of Cities. Cities with economies 
have very long lives. They aren’t just artificial cities that live on taxes, or 
capitals. Capitals don’t last long. 
SB: Cities that were on a coast where the coast has disappeared, because 
the land lifted or got silted in, die pretty quickly. 
JJ: Yes, because trade depended on those things. 
SB: Are there any cities that polluted themselves to death? 
JJ: ’'ve read about ones in Mexico that are supposed to have denuded the 
land. And some cities in India seem to have ruined themselves by defor- 
estation and then mud slides and so on. But you have to realize that cities 
are often very capable of correcting their mistakes; when you find one that 
just goes on doing the wrong things and gets killed by it, it also means 
that for some reason they’ve become incapable of developing. 
HUGH FERRIS. FROM THE COLLECTION OF ANN FERRIS HARRIS, MYSTIC, 
CT. 
Look at the European cities 
that managed to overcome 
epidemics. And they didn’t do 
it with one quick fix. It took a 
lot of different things, a lot of dif- 
ferent measures, including control 
of sewage. 
SB: London used to burn every few years and then they caught on and 
stopped building out of wood and built out of masonry. 
JJ: Absolutely. Again, it wasn’t just one thing. It wasn’t just the change 
to brick and stone. It was also fire-fighting systems, which at first were 
self-organized. The Dutch became wonderful at having fire-fighting 
hoses and water, because they already were so good at pumping, due 
to their lowlands. That spread to other places, which made it possible 
for water to reach up into quite high buildings. In Amsterdam today 
you can look at those narrow, tall buildings, the old ones. 
SB: That’s the famous way to maximize 
real estate value. 
JJ: It wasn’t just real estate value. It was 
all the values of a city. A lot of them have 
to do with saving energy and saving 
resources —all the things that we criticize 
sprawl for now, the opposite of that. 
When | hear people talking about maxi- 
mizing real estate values, | think they’re 
really thinking of superficiality. They 
aren’t thinking of what’s underneath that, 
the saving of resources. 
| also think that people don’t necessarily 
need the most dire things to inspire 
change. Fashion is quite important; it keeps us from doing the same 
thing all the time. Think how people got tired of Victorian fashions and 
all of a sudden they couldn’t stand them anymore. They were ruthless 
about wiping them away. 
This is about to happen, | think, with our present sprawl and suburbs. 
They’re going out of fashion. | think all kinds of things will happen to 
them. Again, it isn’t one fix or one change. | imagine that they will be 
thickened up to quite an extent. They'll be denser. Already, shopping 
centers are getting to be abandoned where there have been too many 
of them. The first thing to think of would be to bulldoze them and put 
something else there. But that’s not obviously the best choice any- 
more. You think, what can you put in there that’s different? Can you 
change some of it to housing? Can you have some stores in it? | think 
that the suburbs will change quite a bit from new, and imaginative, 
uses of that kind. 
SB: What would it take for cities to themselves become a thing of 
the past? People would say, “Oh yeah, remember when we used 
to have cities?” 
JJ: | think we would have the Dark Ages again. That’s what happened 
the last time. 
SB: | looked into that. Europe was de-urbanized by the fall of Rome. 
JJ: Sure. That was the big thing that happened. That’s one reason | 
say that rural areas depend on their cities. They get wiped out if the 
cities do. 
SB: But what was the mechanism there? Why would the fall of Rome 
mean the cities would empty? | don’t follow the sequence of events. 
JJ: Stewart, you want me to write a whole book that I’ve already written 
a couple of times. CO 
Ideas That Matter: The Worlds of Jane 
Jacobs. Max Allen, ed. 1997; 213 pp. $24.95. 
Ginger Press, 848 Second Avenue East, 
Owen Sound, Ontario N4K 2H3, 519/376- 
4233, log.on.ca/gingerpress. Systems of 
Survival: 
A Dialogue 
on 
the 
Moral 
Foundations of Commerce and Politics. jane 
Jacobs. Reissue edition, 1994; 236 pp. $13. 
Vintage Books. The Death and Life of Great 
American Cities. Jane Jacobs. Reissue edi- 
tion, 1993; pp. $18.50. Modern Library. 
The Earth Manual. Malcolm Margolin. revised 
edition, 1985; 237 pp. $16. Heyday Books, PO 
Box 9145, Berkeley, CA 94709, 510/549-3564. 
Technics and Civilization. 
Lewis Mumford. 
1990; 495 pp. $22. Harcourt Brace. Ecology of 
Greenways: Design and Function of Linear 
Conservation Areas. Daniel S. Smith and Paul 
Cawood Hellmund, eds. 1995; 222 pp. $39.95. 
University of Minnesota Press. Asphalt Nation: 
How the Automobile Took over America and 
How We Can Take It Back. Jane Holtz Kay. 1998; 
418 pp. $16.95. University of California Press. 
