RL’s Dream. Walter Mosley. 1995; pp- 
$12. Washington Square Press. Blue 
Light. Walter Mosley. 1998; 296 pp. $24. 
Little, Brown and Company. The Stranger. 
Albert Camus. Reissue edition, 1989; 123 
pp. $9. Vintage Books. 
_ WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
y 
by WALTER MOSLEY 
In mystery writing, regionalism goes hand-in-hand with politics. 
Say you were a union organizer with Chicanos in central California 
and you wrote a book just about it, let’s say a piece of fiction. Only 
people who were interested in it would read it. But if you created a 
hyper-conservative Mexican-American detective from Los Angeles who 
was looking into the murder of the wealthy daughter of some guy who 
owns one of these plantations and you talked about the unions and the 
workers and all these people, then everybody would read it. It’s a really 
good way to do that kind of work. 
A lot of people are more interested in their own political correctness, or 
their version of the truth, so it’s real hard to do that work. | can write 
about black Los Angeles and people migrating from the deep South and 
their relationships, and | do it completely straightforwardly. | have all 
these people, conservative white people in the Midwest, reading it avid- 
ly, thinking they’ve learned something. And of course whenever you 
think you’ve learned something at least you have a chance of maybe 
learning something. 
When you’re writing, the idea is to entertain people. If you’re a story- 
teller you sit around telling stories and the thing is that you keep people 
excited. | was listening to Edwidge Danticat read the other night. She 
was Saying that one of the reasons that she wrote was because the 
ladies who were gigantic in her life in Port au Prince and Haiti, very 
small places in the world, would tell stories bridging that gap for the 
kids. If the kids got tired, all of a sudden there would be a song. Then 
you’d get back into the story and go on. The idea, of course, is that’s 
how you learn. You keep telling stories that everybody’s interested in, 
that they’re elated by, that they find ecstatic in some way, and then they 
might learn something or they might want to learn something. 
I’m into that thing of wanting to learn something. | think that people who 
really read science fiction are very interested in asking questions about 
the world and their relationship to the world. Some of those things are 
ontological, like what is the soul; what is the purpose of life; who am |, 
sitting in relation to this giant void? There’s that kind of stuff. On the 
other hand, that has relationships to who am I. 
| start talking about simple things, like race, in the beginning of Blue 
Light. Here’s this guy with a white mother and black father. The black 
father abandoned him. He thinks like a white person, but he looks like a 
black person. There’s all this other stuff leading to the chapter where the 
story is saying, what’s the difference between you and that tree, and 
there really isn’t much difference. Certainly, we’re cousins to the tree, if 
not more. That’s real. That’s true. But nobody really thinks it. I’m asking 
these larger questions and having a lot of fun doing that and making 
it relate to some smaller issues, but not in a very loud way because 
you get tired of being put in funny ghettoes about what kind of 
writer you are—mystery writer, gritty urban dialect writer. | want- 
ed to go someplace else. 
| was writing a piece about why black people don’t write in 
genres. The title of the thing is, “Why Aren’t There More Black 
Science Fiction Writers?” There are just five that | know of. But 
all black people read science fiction. It’s almost political. They 
say, | can’t stand this world, so where’s another world that’s 
not completely massaged by Robert Kaplan [Ends of the Earth] 
or whatever? You can read Barrington J. Bayley or Brian Aldiss or 
Tolkien. | believe that there’s a white literary establishment that might 
be liberal (which doesn’t mean much). That establishment sees black 
writing as kind of a footnote—they would never say it—but really as a 
footnote. The footnote specifically is addressing the nature of your 
chains, the suffering of black people in America. This is not a bad thing. 
I’m not attacking it necessarily. You have James Baldwin. You have 
Richard Wright. You have Zora Neale Hurston. You have a lot of people. 
But the problem with it, if you look at it closely enough, is that if 
WRITING ABOUT THE UNIVERSE 
Walter Mosely is best known for his Easy Rawlins murder mysteries, which impeccably capture the LA of the fifties and, among other things, the ambiguity between law and authen- 
tic justice; between outlaws and right livelihood. Devil in a Blue Dress became an exquisite period-piece film with Denzel Washington. His “non-mystery” novel, RL's Dream, is one 
of the best novels ever on New York City and the power of the blues. Walter stopped by Whole Earth on his tour for his first science fiction novel, Blue Light. What follows are 
excerpts (we'll print others in a future issue) from a wonderful, far-ranging conversation on everything from Jimi Hendrix to storytelling to what's important at the root of life itself. 
you’re only examining the nature of your chains it really means you’re 
only examining your relationships to white America and to white people 
in America. If you’re saying, I’m chained, and I’m attached to this person 
who’s chaining me, it seems like they’re not chained. Or if they’re 
chained, they’re only chained to you. This is not true. They’re also 
chained. Writing something like Blue Light is getting away from that. I’m 
going to write about the universe. The universe? What does that have to 
do with slavery? It doesn’t have anything to do with slavery. What does 
that have to do with racism? It doesn’t have anything to do with racism. 
It’s like Spider Man or Captain America—anything that can empower and 
deny finds purchase in the black community. It’s important to do that. 
It’s important to say, I’m not paying attention to those chains because as 
long as you’re paying attention to those chains you can’t pay attention, 
for instance, to Africa. Africa is impossible. Africa is an impossible place 
for what has developed as black consciousness in America. We have 
developed on a European model and the European model is steeped 
in racism, even though now it pretends that it isn’t. Just to speak the 
language is to be racist. 
| was in Paris two years ago being interviewed by a woman who was 
saying the racism in America was So terrible and, you know, I’m agreeing 
with her. And then at one point she says, well, you know, we don’t have 
that here. | said, have you talked to the Arabs in Paris lately? They seem 
to think that you hate them. She ended the interview. She said, | have 
enough now. They see their racism as just making sense. 
| love Albert Camus. | love The Stranger and “The Myth of Sisyphus.” 
“Sisyphus” is like that one-tenth of one percent of life that is truly ecsta- 
tic. The other ninety-nine percent is capitalism. | adore Langston Hughes 
because he loved being black—a writer writing from the place where you 
love being who you are. | love James Baldwin and Richard Wright, but 
there’s a lot of conflict in there because that self-hatred is so deep. 
Camus’s writing and his life blended. | was often asked to speak for 
Rushdie or read for Rushdie. | was asked by PEN, an organization which 
| basically quit. | said I’d be happy to do it but in the first half of the cere- 
mony we have to say that we apologize to Iran for three decades of war 
that America has made on them. We have to apologize for the Shah. We 
have to apologize for the torture. We have to apologize for the CIA train- 
ing their police force. We have to apologize for the billions of dollars we 
gave Saddam Hussein in order to attack and destroy hundreds of thou- 
sands, if not millions, of Iranian lives. They said, no, we can’t do that 
because we’re writers. But Camus, it was part of his nature, and the 
anarchists of the early part of the century, it was part of their nature, to 
say: | have to do what’s right. | can’t do what’s wrong. If the Arab side of 
the conflict does something wrong, | have to attack them. If the French 
side of the conflict does something wrong, | have to attack them. What’s 
right has to be right for both sides. It’s very rare that you find that in 
today’s political thinking. It’s not articulated. It’s a hard thing. It burns 
you up. 
You can talk to somebody and they ask, how can | make a difference in 
my life? Well, just read a book every week. They say, yeah, what will that 
do? | say, I’m not really sure, but it will make a difference. If you read a 
book one day and another day talk to somebody about that book it will 
make all the difference in the world. Or write or draw. I’ve been drawing 
bad pictures for thirty years. | think that’s really good. | think it’s won- 
derful to draw bad pictures and to write bad poetry, or maybe write great 
poetry, but that’s not the issue. 
It’s like the idea of meditating. You’re never going to reach enlighten- 
ment, but at least you’re gesturing towards it. You're trying to reach 
enlightenment and that’s a kind of perfectionist thing, but at least it’s 
personal. It’s not like how much better my enlightenment is than your 
enlightenment. co 
