4 
Riss 
ee 
be 
FIVE KINGDOMS 
‘An Iustrated Guide to the Phyla of Life on Earth 
=~ 
ae 
The Ages of Gaia: A Biography of Our Living 
Earth. James Lovelock. 1988; 272 pp. $12. 
W.W. Norton. Five Kingdoms: An Illustrated 
Guide to the Phyla of Life on Earth. Lynn 
Margulis and Karlene V. Schwartz. 3rd edi- 
tion, 1998; 448 pp. $31.75. W.H. Freeman. 
Natural History: A Monthly Magazine of 
Natural History. Bruce Stutz, editor. 
$30/year (10 issues). PO Box 5000, Harlan, 
1A 51537-5000, 212/769-5500. The 
Psychoanalysis of Fire. Gaston Bachelard 
and Alan C. M. Ross. 1964; 115 pp. $13. 
Beacon Press. World Fire: The Culture of 
Fire on Earth. Stephen J. Pyne. 1995; 408 
pp. $19.95. University of Washington Press. 
Water and Dreams: An Essay on the 
Imagination of Matter. Gaston Bachelard 
and Edith Farrell, translator. 1942; 213 pp. 
$18. The Dallas Institute of Humanities and 
Culture, 2719 Routh Street, Dallas, TX 75201, 
214/981-8810. Last Oasis: Facing Water 
Scarcity. Sandra Postel. 2nd edition, 1997; 
239 pp. $10.95. W. W. Norton. Dirt: The 
Ecstatic Skin of the Earth. William Bryant 
Logan. 1995; 202 pp. $12. Berkley 
: 
Publishing Group. The Forgiving Air: 
Understanding Environmental Change. 
Richard C.J. Somerville. 1996; 220 pp. 
$13.95. University of California Press. 
Global Change: A Review of Climate Change 
and Ozone Depletion. Free (quarterly). 
Pacific Institute, 654 13th Street, 
Preservation Park, Oakland, CA 20003-1540, 
510/251-1600, www.globalchange.org. 
irt 
Crnldte @ 
i Sin 
of 
the Garth 
; 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
by LYNN MARGULIS 
| met Jim Lovelock for the second time in 1972. By then, he had 
talked enough for me to obtain a glimmering notion of his Gaia 
idea. As a committee member on various advisory boards for 
NASA, he was preoccupied, in his tinkery sort of way, with the 
problem of how one could objectively determine if life existed on Mars. 
What was obvious to him, after measuring reactive gases of biological 
origin such as ammonia, methane, and nitrogen and sulfur oxides, was 
that the air was loaded with exudates of life. These gases were accompa- 
nied by many other detectable trace compounds such as terpenes (piny 
essences), volatile amines (garbage smells), and methyl bromide (sea- 
weed odor). Yet, as every chemistry student knows, all of these reduced 
organic compounds react readily and easily with oxygen and, from the 
point of view of chemistry alone, they should not be present for long in 
air samples. This thinking led Lovelock to the unassailable conclusion 
that the search for life on Mars should mainly be a thorough gas analysis 
that not only identified every gaseous component of Martian air but also 
measured their fluxes: the rate at which each was produced and 
removed. He figured: because the Earth’s air is made of highly reactive 
mixtures, it shows the unmistakable presence of life. He suggested look- 
ing for reactive mixtures, or at least changes in gas concentrations, in the 
atmospheres of Mars and other planets, to see if any explanation beyond 
chemistry and physics would be required for understanding them. 
As we talked about the biological effects of life on a planetary scale 
we made each other aware of the fact that all live beings produce 
and remove gas. All life requires the production of some gases and 
the removal of others (for instance, plants release oxygen and carbon 
dioxide to the air; animals and plants remove oxygen from the air). 
Microbes produce and remove a great range of other gases as well. 
Yes, we concluded with enthusiasm, the atmosphere is the circulatory 
system of the biosphere. 
After making some conversational “Interactive Lecture [IAL]” tapes with 
Dr. Stewart Wilson, inventor the IAL system, we became more excited 
about the idea. By then Lovelock had published with Peter Liss and Dian 
Hitchcock on “detection of life throughout the atmosphere.” Lovelock 
complained that no one seemed to understand what he was saying. In 
his frustration he turned to his neighbor, the novelist William Golding, 
for “a good four-letter word to focus the attention of his scientific 
colleagues on the Earth as a system.” Golding suggested “Gaia.” 
When we first recorded our preliminary Gaia conversation, Stewart 
Wilson failed to engage one of the two recording buttons. He never did 
figure out what went wrong, but we had talked the entire day and not a 
word besides “testing, testing” had been recorded. We had two choices: 
ANOTHER FOUR-LETTER WORD: GAIA 
Lynn is the most imaginative empirical scientist of cell evolution alive. Her work—from the Gaia Hypothesis to cell symbiosis—has revolutionized conceptual thinking on the micro- 
cosmos. She has continually refused to be bound by academic conceptual boxes. The educational materials Lynn has written and produced for general audiences have vividly altered 
high school and college curricula. I've said it before: she and James Lovelock are long overdue for a Nobel Prize. 
forget it or rerecord two days hence, just prior to Lovelock’s takeoff from 
Logan Airport. We opted for the latter. The consequence of our decision 
was striking. The new, far finer, shorter, and better-organized dialogue 
inspired us to write up these ideas for scientific publication. 
We wrote our first Gaia paper on life as the circulatory system of the 
atmosphere as a Short, readable statement, in the style of the American 
Scientist, which we circulated to many scientific colleagues and friends 
for perusal and suggestions. After an unconscionably long wait, 
American Scientist rejected the article. We sent it out to others; while it 
was incubating, | received a call from Stewart Brand, founder and then- 
editor of CoEvolution Quarterly. Brand proved to me that he was all 
right, and no kook, because he already was friends with Phylis and Phil 
Morrison (extraordinary science teachers and writers, he for over thirty 
years as Scientific American’ s book reviewer). In his inimitable fashion, 
Stewart wasted no time: “I want to publish your paper with Lovelock.” 
| asked him how he planned to review, edit, and change it. He said he 
liked it as it was. He was not a scientist and had no intention of altering 
it. He would publish the entire piece, illustrations, tables, and all. | was 
amazed. | blurted out, “But no scientist reads CQ. No one will trust our 
science if our work appears in your magazine before publication in a 
professional journal!” | remember distinctly his unambiguous response: 
“What do you care what people think? You want to see the Gaia idea 
out, don’t you?” 
Thus began the life of the Gaia hypothesis independent of Lovelock, 
of me, and of the scientific community. Of course work went on. The 
ideas, boosted mightily by Jim Lovelock’s 1979 Oxford University Press 
book Gaia: A New Look at Life on Earth, were discussed in some 
scientific quarters. Within the evolutionist establishment, led primarily 
by Oxford University’s Richard Dawkins, they denigrated, derided, and 
ignored Gaia as if she were an old witch. In the end, the scientific com- 
munity of scholars co-opted our scientific ideas (to our delight). Still 
railing against the G-word (Gaia), they infiltrated their research with 
G-concepts. Atmospheric chemists, environmental scientists, planetary 
astronomers, geophysicists, geomorphologists, geographers, ecologists, 
and the public called this new view of our living planet “Earth System 
Science.” co 
Gaian Realms 
Temperate seashore rocky, sandy, and muddy; sunlit st 
surface 
FROM 
FIVE 
KINGDOMS 
