ENERGY LESSONS LEARNED ANO TO BE LEARNED: 
VERITIES THAT WILL ASTONISH SOME AND DELIQHT THE REST 
by AMORY B. LOVINS 
Amory Lovins, co-founder of Rocky Mountain Institute, (www.mi.org) is, of course, Benjamin Franklin's dream of Mr. Waste-Not-Want-Not. Say the "E” word 
, 
; 
, 
and Amory's insights, encyclopedic recall, great light shows, tightly written arguments, and persuasive lectures to grassroots advocates or CEOs or secur 
! 
rity mavens pop to mind. Energy and integrated design will be featured in his and Hunter Lovin's new book with Paul Hawken, Natural Capitalism. 
j 
- 
Pe aa Se 
= 
. 
i 
Sy 
1. Total US energy use is 
now slightly below the 
level suggested in my 
1976 “soft energy path” 
graph (see figure), widely 
criticized at the time as 
wildly optimistic. Renewable 
energy growth was delayed a 
decade by federal hostility, but is 
starting to gain momentum. A “third 
wave” of energy efficiency may be starting, reversing the 1986-96 period 
of stagnation. If we learn its lessons, this success can be greatly expand- 
ed, and extended to other resources. 
2. Environmental problems from using energy are unnecessary. It’s 
cheaper not to have them. Meeting and surpassing the Kyoto targets will 
be not costly but profitable—saving fuel costs less than buying fuel. 
Climate politics will therefore shift from price, pain, penury, bearing bur- 
dens, and sharing sacrifices toward profit, enterprise, initiative, innova- 
tion, and competitive advantage. This shift will make consensus straight- 
forward; no matter how the climate science turns out or who goes first, 
protecting climate boosts practitioners’ bottom lines. 
3. New design techniques can often make big energy savings cost less 
to achieve than small savings. “Tunneling through the cost barrier” has 
been empirically and convincingly demonstrated in many technical sys- 
tems, but such new design is absent from all energy models because 
they’re based not on engineering practice but on economic theory. 
4. Energy efficiency and distributed power generation will increasingly 
be bought for reasons other than saving energy commodity costs. 
Energy efficiency and power generation will be bought, respectively, for 
qualitatively superior services and distributed benefits. 
5. Ability to respond to price is more important than price itself. Price 
matters, but its policy importance has been much overrated. High ener- 
gy prices are neither necessary nor sufficient for very efficient energy use. 
6. Restructuring the electricity industry will yield surprisingly small 
benefits unless retail distributors are rewarded for cutting customers’ 
bills rather than for selling more energy. Restructuring matters, but 
mainly benefits big users (“big dogs eat first”) and confuses small ones. 
Regardless of restructuring, utilities can’t compete without helping cus- 
tomers wring more work from each kilowatt-hour. That’s the only impor- 
tant way to yield better service and lower bills. 
7. Big, fast energy savings can yield after-tax returns over 100 percent 
per year even at or below today’s low US energy prices. After saving 
$150-200 billion worth of US energy use per year in the past twenty-five 
years, we’re still wasting upwards of $300 billion a year. End-use effi- 
ciency is a rapidly expanding resource, because learning outpaces 
doing. Its returns to scale don’t diminish but rather expand. 
8. For many smart companies, capturing these savings is gaining 
momentum for competitive reasons, but is inhibited by sixty to eighty 
specific kinds of market failures, some at the level of the firm and some 
in public policy. Proven techniques can turn each of these market fail- 
ures into a lucrative business opportunity. 
9. American firms that are starting to discover this are increasingly 
behaving as if the Kyoto Protocol had already been ratified by the US 
Senate. The more firms so behave, the more likely and less necessary 
ratification becomes. US leadership on climate protection has largely 
Passed from the public to the private sector, simply because efficiency 
costs less than fuel. By 2000, carbon-reduction market-makers will have 
discredited climate skeptics’ theoretical economic models by discovering 
empirical prices 10-100 times below their predictions. 
10. Specific efforts to cure market failures in buying energy efficiency 
should top the public-policy climate agenda. Most countries ignore 
them, wrongly assuming they need only proper pricing and fuller com- 
modity competition. Countries making this error will fall further behind 
those that take market economics seriously rather than literally. 
11. R&D will yield important advances. But optimal application of old, 
even Victorian, technologies would probably suffice to meet the Kyoto 
goals at a profit. Technological R&D must be supplemented by 
improved design education, retreading of in-practice design profession- 
als, and greater attention to energy anthropology (the emerging sci- 
ence of why people use energy the way they do). 
12. A market-driven transformation already irreversibly underway will 
rapidly bring new light vehicles, including full-sized American ones, 
“ 
above eighty and often to 100-200 mpg. Early models, including fuel- 
cell cars, will start to enter the market around 2000, with major mar- 
ket shares shifted by 2005-10. Automakers that fail to make the tran- 
sition to ultralight, ultra-low-drag, hybrid-electric vehicles will risk 
disappearing. Over the next few decades, such Hypercars™ and their 
kin will save an OPEC’s worth of oil. Complementary policies to maxi- 
mize competition between ways to get around and not needing to get 
around—for example, eliminating sprawl by not mandating and sub- 
sidizing it—can also yield better and fairer access with much less dri- 
ving. 
13. Twelve powerful forces are driving a rapid transition to distrib- 
uted electric generation, where the power plant shifts from remote, 
gigantic stations to your roof, basement, backyard, and driveway. 
The central power plant is already obsolete and, like much bulk 
electric transmission, will become uneconomic to run and difficult 
to sell. Such plants are unlikely to survive in any significant num- 
bers by 2030. Unpleasant vulnerabilities built into the architec- 
ture of brittle, highly centralized systems (e.g. Y2K problems) 
could greatly accelerate this trend. 
14. Many of the distributed resources will be renewable as their costs 
inexorably drop and their quality and convenience improve. Even if the 
renewable transition took a couple of centuries, it could be bridged by 
abundant and nearly ubiquitous natural gas. Its use won’t harm the 
climate if its CO2 is separated out at the wellhead and reinjected 
into the reservoir. This is generally profitable because it yields 
=e 
three income streams: sale of H2 as a premium fuel, enhanced 
recovery of CH4, and trading sequestered carbon under Kyoto 
Protocol rules. 
250 
15. A smooth transi- 
tional path to a cli- 
matically benign 
hydrogen economy 
has already been 
150 
devised, appears 
profitable starting 
now, doesn’t need 
major infrastructure 
investments, and is 
50+. 
already being adopt- 
ed by large and 
capable energy and 
automotive firms. 
Much of the energy- 
carrier role projected for electricity will use hydrogen and fuel cells. 
primary energy consumption 
505 
(quadrillion BTUfear) 
actual total 
consumption 
PS 
reported by 
-- 
100 
nuclear 
16. So diverse and robust are the existing and emerging competitors that 
oil will probably become uncompetitive even at low prices before it 
becomes unavailable even at high prices. The most intelligent oil 
majors already understand they’re in the coal-and-oil endgame; the 
only internal dilemma is whether to say so. 
17. The possibility of wholly new energy sources consistent with the 
laws of physics—but going beyond the special-case physics we ordinari- 
ly observe—cannot be excluded. However, such sources are unlikely to 
be free, and may prove uncompetitive with existing sources, let alone 
with efficient use. 
18. These developments in the North fit beautifully with leapfrog devel- 
opment strategies for the East and South, and could free capital for 
other development needs. The spiritually underdeveloped North will 
discover the futility and vanity of trying to meet nonmaterial needs by 
material means. Energy and resource efficiency don’t correct excessive 
population or consumption—they just buy time and earn money needed 
to address such fundamental problems. 
19. The most fundamental and important innovations will come from 
biological design models in every aspect of our lives, notably redesign- 
ing production and commerce, reshaping control, and taking our goals 
and worldviews not from Bacon and Descartes but from Darwin and 
Thoreau, Leopold and Lewis Thomas, Kevin Kelly and Janine Benyus. 
Energy is but one of a myriad of fields that the biological paradigm 
will transform. 
20. In short, past energy surprises pale in comparison with those now 
certain to occur. However, this neo-cornucopian vision, though basically 
market-driven, has vital roles also for public policy too, albeit with non- 
traditional emphases: the cornucopia is the manual model, and one 
must actually turn the crank! Co 
USEIA 
wee . 
renewgbles 
1975 
1980 
1985 
1990 
1995 
2000 
| 
1] 
ee 
"hard path" projected by 
industry and government 
Ca. 1975 
“soft path" proposed by 
Lovins in 1976 
Rime = 
= =~ Bes 
oil and gas 
a 
soft technologies 
(which do not include 
big hydro or nuclear) 
2010 
2015 
2020 
2025 
Home Power: The Hands-On 
Journal of 
Home-Made Power. $22.50/yr (six issues). 
PO Box 520, Ashland, OR 97520, 530/475- 
0830, www.homepower.com. 
Designing 
Interactive Strategy: From Value Chain to 
Value Constellation. Richard Normann and 
Rafael Ramirez. 1994; 155 pp. $88.50. John 
Wiley & Sons. 
Industrial 
Ecology: An 
Environmental Agenda for Industry. Hardin 
C. Tibbs. 1992; may be downloaded 
at 
www.suStainable.doe.gov/articles/ 
indecol.htm. 
Designing 
Interactive 
Strategy 
