WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 1968 
PURPOSE 
We are as gods and might as well get used to it. So far, remotely done 
power and glory—as via government, big business, formal education, 
church—has succeeded to the point where gross obscure actual gains. 
In response to this dilemma and to these gains a realm of intimate, 
personal power is developing—power of the individual to conduct his 
own education, find his own inspiration, shape his own environment, 
and share his adventure with whoever Is interested. Tools that aid this 
process are sought and promoted by the WHOLE EARTH CATALOG. 
FUNCTION 
The WHOLE EARTH CATALOG functions as an evaluation and access 
device. 
With it, the user should know better what is worth 
getting and where and how to do the getting. 
An item is listed in the CATALOG if it is deemed: 
1) Useful as a tool, 
2) Relevant to independent education, 
3) High quality or low cost, 
4) Not already common knowleage, 
5) Easily available by mail. 
This information is continually revised according to the experience 
and suggestions of CATALOG users and staff. 
USING THE 1968 CATALOG 
WARNING: Using the access information from the 1968 Catalog will drive you nuts. 
Publishers begged us not to reprint the Catalog with their names anywhere near 
books they no longer carry. Please don’t call a publisher and ask for a book because 
you saw it here. 
This striped ball appears next 
i 
Colm olole) qm ore) 
(-1 Mr 
Lace Mmm 
Cole) |-mm Ce) 
help you estimate the item’s 
size. 
The LIVE TURTLE 
indicates that a 
book or tool, or its worthy replace- 
ment, 
lives 
on. 
Not surprisingly, 
access 
has changed over thirty 
years. See new access on page 
62. If the 1968 item is no longer 
EVEN Ele)(-Mm ol] Mare \- Mm ol ale M-Me (os 
cessor we think is worth noting, the 
replacement is also found on p. 62. 
The DEAD TURTLE means that the 
tool or book 
is essentially not 
available. Maybe an antiquarian 
bookstore or gizmo collector has 
it. Check a library. As far as we can 
tell, nothing of equal excellence 
has replaced it. If you know of an 
outstanding successor, tell us. 
