A Year from Monday 
consciousness. 
“They think ‘world’, 
Theirs will be the most powerful and 
constructive revolution in all history." 
Liv. 
More we leave the land, the more 
productive it becomes 
Technique for 
changing society: education followed by 
unemployment. 
The question is: Is my thought changing? 
It is and it isn’t. 
One evening after dinner, | was telling friends that | was not concerned 
with improving the world. One of the m said: 
| thought you always 
were. 
| then explained that | believe - and am acting upon — Marshall 
McLuhan’s statement that we have through electronic technology 
produced an extension of our brains to the world formerly outside 
of us. To me that means that the disciplines, gradual and sudden 
(principally Oriental), formerly practiced by individuals to pacify 
their minds, bringing them into accord with ultimate reality, must 
now be practiced socially — that is, not just inside our heads, but out- 
side of them, in the world, where our central nervous system now is. 
This has brought it about that the work and thought of Buckminster 
Fuller is of prime importance to me. 
He more than any other to my 
knowledge sees the world situation-all of it-clearly and has fully 
reasoned projects for turning our attention away from “killingry” 
toward “livingry.” .. 
. 
Article by Avner Hovne on 
automation (Impact of Science on 
Society 15:1, Unesco publication). 
Continuity values giving way to flexibility 
values. 
Automation alters what's done and 
where we do it. 
You could always tell 
when she was about to go out of her 
mind. 
She would begin to speak the 
Coming back to the notion that my thought is changing. 
Say it isn’t. 
One thing, however, that keeps it moving is that I'm continually 
finding new teachers with whom | study. 
| had studied with Richard 
Buhlig, Henry Cowell, Arnold Schoenberg, Daisetz Suzuki, Guy 
Nearing. Now I'm studying with N.O. Brown, Marshall McLuhan, 
Buckminster Fuller, Marcel Duchamp. 
In connection with my current 
studies with Duchamp, it turns out that I’m a poor chessplayer. My mind 
seems in some respect lacking, so that | make obviously stupid moves. 
A Year From Monday 
| do not for 
a moment doubt that this lack of intelligence affects my 
from: 
truth. 
April ‘64: 
fifty-five global 
/; 
music and thinking generally. 
However, | have a redeeming quality: 
John Cage 
We 
. Universtiy Press 
| was gifted with a sunny disposition. 
1967; 167pp. 
M 
in, Conn. 06457 
or W_ARTH CATALOG 
A YEAR FROM MONDAY 
General Systems Yearbook 
$7.92 postai 
Everything we come across is to the 
Meee 
XXXVI 
Weather feels good 
hphesirse elec 
point. 
Living umderground because 
Isn't 
More rain is needed. 
Water. 
there was no money. 
Arizona land and alr 
He played two games, winning one, losing 
permitted making mounds, covering them with 
the other. 
He was continually himself, 
totally involved in each game, unmoved 
What's the 
nature of his teaching? 
cement, excavating to produce rooms, 
providing these with skylights. 
For 
anyone approaching, the community was 
invisible. 
Cacti, desert plants: the 
land seemed undisturbed. 
Quantity 
(abundance) changes what's vice, 
what's virtue. 
Selfishness is out; 
carelessness is in. 
CWaste’s 
by the outcome of either. 
For one 
thing: devotion (practice gives evidence 
of it). 
For another: not just 
playing half the game but playing all of 
it (having a view that includes that of 
the opponent ). 
Suddenly a clam rose to 
The Logic of Systems: 
An Introduction to a Formal Theory of Structure 
Mathematical Aspects of General Systems Theory 
General Systems Yearbook 
The General System as a Methodological Tool 
Toward a Theory of Parts and Wholes: 
An Algebraic Approach 
Systems Theory from an Operations Research Point of View 
Meteorology and the Social Sciences: 
Further Comparisons 
Similar Problems in Meteorology and Psychology 
Methodological Problems of System Research 
General systems theory was introduced by biologist Ludwig 
von Bertalanffy some years back (one application has been 
systems analysis, which has recomprehended and redesigned 
much of business, technology, education, etc.). The General 
Systems Yearbook is edited by Bertalanffy and Anatol Rapo- 
port. 
The Architecture of Complexity 
Metaorganization of Information 
On the Emergence of Patterns of Order 
The Insect Corneal Nipple Array 
On the Stability of Brain-Like Structures 
Some Considerations on the Notion of Invariant Field in Linguistics 
The Wholeness of Living Systems and Some Basic Biological Problems 
On the Origin of Order in Behavior 
Toward a Unifying Theory of Cognition 
A Cognitive Approach to the Analysis of Cultures and Cultural Evolution 
Contributions to Stochastic Learning Theory 
The University Community System-Self-Regulated Bearer of Meaning 
Aspiration Levels and Utility Theory 
A Condensation of Warpeace Space 
By definition General Systems is a mixed bag. Kinds of 
systems covered in the Yearbook include Biological, Social, 
Psychological, Games, Linguistic, Political, Cybernetic and 
Meteorological. Throughout is the search for common dy- 
namics that transcend them all. It's technical, mathematical 
business, heavy reading, and maybe trivial, maybe wishful; 
but ever here and there is a gleam of something that might 
be a window in to broad mindscapes. 
Concession-Making in Experimental Conditions 
On Some General Categories of Linguistics 
Wheat on Kilimanjaro: The Perception of Choice Within Game and 
The Theory of Meta-Games 
Learning Model Frameworks 
The Mathematics of Meta-Games 
Models of Southern Kwakiutl Social Organization 
Benevolence in Game Theory 
A Field Theory of Social Action with Application to Conflict 
A Taxonomy of 2 x 2 Games 
VOLUME XI (1966) 
An Analysis of Duopoly Bargaining 
Two Motivations for Defection in Prisoner’s Dilemma Games 
The current volume of the Yearbook (1967) is Volume XII 
Empirical Approaches to Game Theory and Bargaining: 
a Bibliography 
Titles of articles, working back as far as we have space are: 
The price of the Yearbook is 
$1 0.00 for recent volumes, 
ge, 
a 
| 
VOLUME XII (1967) 
, 
Ss 
or 
Genera 
$7.50 for earlier ones. 
¢ 
Pescarch 
Consolidated contents booklet available free. 
E 
GENERAL 
SYSTEMS 
The Evolution of the Human Brain: Some Notes Toward a Synthesis 
E 
Mass. 01730 
Between Neural Structure and the Evolution of Complex Behavior 
VOLUME IX (1964) 
nastlld ak tells by Unt ties Quen 
Organismic Sets; Outline of a General Theory of Biological and Social 
Organisms 
voce ee 
ee a 
tae Piyeiisl Sconces 
zs 
The Orderliness of Biological Systems 
1 
Colony Development of a Polymorphic Hydroid as a Problem in Pattern 
Prediction in Physics and the Social Sciences 
Formation 
The Concept of Entropy in Landscape Evolution 
Geomorphology and General Systems Theory 
An Approach to the Conceptual Analysis of Scientific Crises 
A Survey of General Systems Theory 
A Geometric Model with Some Properties of Biological Systems 
The Regulation of Political Systems 
POE om Be Beery 
ees ot tee 
bees 
Types of Asymmetry in Social and Political Systems 
A Quantitative Approach to the Dynamics of Perception 
The Set Theory of Mechanism and Homeostasis 
Some Psychological Aspects of Psychometry 
Constraint Analysis of Many-Dimensional Relations 
A Further Extension of General Systems Theory for Psychiatry 
The Domain of Adaptive Systems: A Rudimentary Taxonomy 
A Dynamic Model of the Conflict Between Criminals and Society 
Language Description of Concepts 
Some Simple Models of Arms Races 
The Problem of Systemic Organizations in Theoretical Biology 
The Conceptual Formulation and Mathematical Solution of Practical 
Problems in Population Input-Output Dynamics 
The Use of Mathematics and Computers to Determine Optimal Strategies 
for a Given Insect Pest Control Problem 
VOLUME X (1965) 
Some Comparisons Between Traffic Deaths and Suicide 
Crime Rate vs. Population Density in United States Cities: A Model 
Simulation of Socio-Economic Systems 
An Empirical Test of Five Assumptions in an Inter-National Simulation 
About National Political Systems 
