| recently attended an environmental 
conference with the slogan promi- 
nent on its promotional literature and 
program brochure, “It’s all connect- 
ed.” It made me sad to hear that. | had 
a twinge of the same kind of sadness | 
felt when | first read and understood the 
implications of John Muir’s wonderful 
insight: “When we try to pick out anything 
by itself, we find it hitched to everything else 
in the Universe.” The same kind of sadness | feel 
when | read something by Joseph Campbell or some 
other Jungian that shows that underlying the appar- 
ent diversity of religious belief and practice are 
almost identical images and concerns. The same 
kind of sadness and uneasiness as when someone 
tells me that I’m a member of the Global Village. It’s 
all connected, is it? Ouch! How do | disconnect? 
It’s not that | don’t recognize the power and 
beauty, even the truth, of this manner of thinking. 
Muir’s astonishing statement—so clear, irreducible, 
and forceful—is surely one of the great energizers of 
the modern ecology movement, which is perhaps the 
one thing that will save us in the end. It is a state- 
ment both profoundly religious and profoundly practi- 
cal. For me it is also profoundly troubling. Along with 
the mystical wonderment and sense of ecological 
responsibility that comes with the recognition of 
connectedness, more disturbing images come to 
mind. When applied to economics, connectedness 
seems to take the form of chain stores, multinational 
corporations, and international trade treaties which 
wipe out local enterprise and indigenous culture. 
When | think of it in the realm of religion, | envision 
smug missionaries who have done such a good job 
of convincing native people everywhere that their 
World-Maker is the same as God, and by this shoddy 
sleight of hand have been steadily impoverishing the 
world of the great fecundity and complex localism of 
belief systems that capture truths outside the 
Western canon. And | wonder—if everything’s con- 
nected, does that mean that everything can be 
manipulated and controlled centrally by those who 
know how to pull strings at strategic places? 
For the last twenty-five years my writing and 
publishing—never all that connected to mainstream 
concerns—have been heavily involved with California 
Indian culture and history. At one time California had 
over 500 politically independent tribal entities who 
spoke about one hundred distinct and mutually 
incomprehensible languages and who lived in a wide 
variety of ecological settings. While these groups 
may have been connected by marriage, trade, and 
other cultural ties, each was also proudly indepen- 
dent and unique, linked to a particular territory for 
most of its food, building material, and divine ener- 
gy. Others, | suppose, might look over this bewilder- 
ing array of humanity and discern connectedness — 
similarities of economy, belief, social structure, etc. 
But | keep stumbling, everywhere | turn, upon won- 
derful differences. 
Take, for example, the Yurok language of the lower 
Klamath River in northwestern California. Once spo- 
ken by perhaps 2,000 people—quite enough for a 
complex language such as this—its future as a living 
language now rests in the hands of slightly more 
than a dozen fluent speakers, all quite elderly. There 
are many marvelous qualities to this language, but let 
Me describe just one: its manner of counting. There 
are fifteen different ways of counting in Yurok, 
THE BEAUTY OF 
DISCONNECTION 
Malcolm is publisher of Heyday Books, the finest regional book company known to Whole Earth. It is amazing how many facets of California 
history and nature Malcolm has nurtured to press—the best book on biodiversity, the best Native American newsletter, the best books of the 
Great Valley and on Berkeley writers, etc,, etc. His own work, especially Ohlone Way and Earth Manual (see p. 29) have been instant bioregional 
* 
. 
. 
' 
4 
3 
classics—calm, erudite, and straightfoward. Malcolm's two now-grown children kindle my faith: imagination and fun will not perish in the next century, 
> 
depending upon what is being counted. Two 
humans, for example, are described by the 
numeral ni’ iyet. Two houses, however, are 
a’a’ li. Different words are likewise used for two 
boats; two worms, snakes, ropes, or other long, 
skinny things; two trees; two plants other than 
trees; two tools; two rocks, coins, or other round 
objects; etc. | find myself filled with great joy 
when | encounter something like this, when | 
catch a glimmering of the way in which a lan- 
guage can capture and encode a significant — 
and to me—revelatory truth. They are right, of 
course. It is quite clear that the seven-ness of 
seven human beings is qualitatively different 
= 
= = 
a 
irs 
= s = 
= 
= 
= S 
a 
= 
= 
2 
from the seven-ness of seven trees, both of 
which are qualitatively different from the seven- 
ness of seven birds, and so on. How precise this 
language is, to pay tribute to distinctness and to 
force those who speak that language to acknowl- 
edge the incomparability of different things. 
Our own system of counting, one-size-fits-all, has 
NAVAJO NIQHTWAY 
CHANT 
Happily may fair yellow corn, fair blue corn, fair corn of all kinds, 
plants of kinds, goods of all kinds, jewels of all kinds, come with 
you to the ends of the earth... 
Happily the old men will regard you 
Happily the old women will regard you 
The young men @ the young women will regard you 
The children will regard you 
Happily as they scatter in different directions they will rege 
Happily as they approach their homes they will regard you 
May their roads home be on the trail of peace 
Happily may they all return 
In beauty | walk 
With beauty before me | walk 
With beauty behind me | walk 
With beauty above me | walk 
With beauty below @ about me | walk 
It is finished in beauty 
It is finished in beauty 
by MALCOLM MARGOLIN 
> 
The Ohlone Way. Malcolm Margolin. 1981; 
182 pp. $12.95. Heyday Books, PO Box 
9145, Berkeley, CA 94709, 510/549-3564- 
Shaye 
produced enormous benefits. It has allowed for a 
The OhloneWay 
system of mathematics by which we can explore 
Indian life in the San Francisco 
Monterey 
Bay Area 
everything from the subatomic to the intergalac- 
tic. Our math-based science has given us the 
tools for understanding so much of the universe, 
and for controlling it, too. Yet | can’t help but feel 
that among all the gains, we have lost some- 
thing, something essential and truthful. We have 
lost a manner of thinking that allows us to see 
the world as something composed of unique, dis- 
tinct, incomparable entities and small systems of 
; 
oe: 
great variety, great individuality, with rugged 
by Malcolm Margolin 
strengths and inviolable character. 
Nlustrated by Michael Harney 
If indeed it is all connected, | guess that eventu- 
ally we'll find a single political system, economic 
The Unknown Craftsman. 
Soetsu Yanagi. 
system, religious system, and language 
that will 
Revised 
edition, 
1990; 
230 
pp. 
$32. 
¥ 
5 
8 
¥ 
suas 
Kodansha 
International. Navajo Medicine 
cover it all. | hope these systems are good ones, 
Man: Sandpaintings. 
Gladys A. Reichard. 
kind to people and other inhabitants of the 
1997; 83 pp. $12.95. Dover. Tibetan Thangka 
: 
Painting: Methods and Materials. 
David 
world, capacious enough to allow for at least 
jacksontand’ janice! lackeonsascasoonrn! 
some variety and complexity. Perhaps, along with 
$40 ($48 postpaid). Snow Lion, PO Box 
everyone else, | too am working toward it. | have 
6483, Ithaca, NY 14852, 607-273-8519, 
3 
www.snowlionpub.com/. 
no doubt that in the years to come I'll attend 
more conferences, where I’ll give out my phone 
number and address so as to increase my con- 
nectedness to others, thereby contributing — 
whether | want to or not—to the systems that are 
horrifically linking us all. | don’t think I’m strong 
enough to withstand the epidemic of connected- 
ness entirely. But for as long as possible, I'll 
honor and draw strength, wisdom, and insight 
from people and from ways of thinking that cele- 
brate not the connectedness, but rather the 
uniqueness of the things around us. I’ll continue 
to write along those lines, publish along those 
lines, and | hope, perhaps, read the writings of 
others who understand that other and beautiful 
world, that other and beautiful kind of truth. CO 
Tike! 
Methods av 
Sandpainting based on the legend of the Scavenger in the Eagle's Nest. 
From Navajo Medicine Man Sandpaintings 
