VISIONS FOR RURAL KENTUCKY 
by WeNdeLL BERRY 
Wendell Berry has farmed Kentucky soils and grown crops and abundant poetry, fiction, and essays—totalling now over thirty books. His is the superbly-crafted voice of rural 
America, especially its farmers; his clarity allows the toughest truths to be drunk with the greatest ease and pleasure. A Timbered Choirs his latest collection of poems. This essay 
is froma 
speech at the Family Farms Agricultural Roundtable. Originally printed in Foresight, a publication of the Kentucky Long-term Policy Research Center (800/853-2851). 
A vision for rural Kentucky...is a subject | approach with a 
good deal of uneasiness, for | know something of the history 
of visions in rural Kentucky. The Bible says that where there is 
no vision the people perish. It is also true that where the vision is 
wrong the people perish. 
The visions | am comfortable with are small-scale, private, inexpensive 
visions of improvement. There are no good farmers, probably, who do 
not see visions of the ways their farms could be improved: their farms 
could be more diverse, more productive, better fenced; there could bea 
wider margin between carrying capacity and numbers of livestock, giving 
comfort in dry years; there are scars that could be healed, woodlands 
that could be protected—and so on. I’m comfortable too with con- 
sumers’ visions of fresher, healthier, more trustworthy produce from the 
Wendell Berry 
| 
The Unsettling | 
of America 
Culture & 
Agriculture 
In Kentucky we know that the important question is, “Who has the 
vision?” The coal companies have had a vision of the Kentucky coal- 
fields. The timber companies have had a vision of Kentucky forests. The 
tobacco companies have had a vision of Kentucky farms, and so have the 
packing houses and the grain dealers. The great agribusiness, timber, 
and coal corporations still have a vision of rural Kentucky, and in their 
vision the bottom dollar is always passing from the strong to the weak, 
and the top dollar from the weak to the strong. And of course rural 
Kentucky is always shrinking because of the visions of subdividers 
and developers. 
The fact of the matter is that rural Kentucky is now more endangered 
than it has ever been. We are losing our farmers; the old are dying, the 
young are leaving. We have serious soil erosion. We are losing land to 
“development.” We are in depression, and under threat. If you look for 
the money made from the products and the labor of one of our rural 
counties, you will see that very little of it is retained within the county 
line and not much more within the boundaries of the state. The story 
of these losses—of soil, land, farmers, economic resources and opportu- 
nities—is an ongoing story. We are going to be living with that story and 
its consequences for a long time. 
I’m far from believing that rural Kentucky is a place for optimists. It 
would be unwise to risk underestimating the difficulties we are in. On 
the other hand, | do believe that rural Kentucky is a place for hope. 
I’m hopeful because | know, | have seen for myself, that we have people 
who are doing a good job, both as producers and as stewards of the 
land. And so | know that things can be better; we have good examples 
in front of us; abuse is not the inevitable consequence of use. 
What I’m really nervous about is people who have visions for other 
people. Generally, | don’t mind advice that begins, “Not bossing you or 
anything, but you could do it this way.” But | would mind living in some- 
body else’s political or economic or technological vision. | don’t want to 
live next-door to a hog factory or chemical plant. | don’t want to live 
where my community’s fate and future will be determined by people who 
don’t care about it. | know that some economies reduce freedom and 
economic opportunity. 
The Unsettling of America. Wendell Berry. 3rd edition, 1996; 234 
pp. $12. Sierra Club Books. The Old Farmer’s Almanac 1999. 
1998; 288 pp. $4.95. Random House. Seed Savers Heirloom 
Seeds and Gifts Catalog. Seed Savers, 3076 North Winn Road, 
Decorah, IA 52101, 319/382-5990. Seed to Seed. Suzanne 
Ashworth. 1991; 222 pp. $20. Seed Savers Exchange, 3076 North 
Winn Road, Decorah, IA 52101, 319/382-5990. Small Farmer’s 
Journal. $24/year (quarterly). L.R. Miller, editor/publisher. 325 
Barclay Drive, Sisters, OR 97759, 541/549-4403. 
local countryside, of farmers’ markets, of ways in which local citizens 
could invest their money and work in a community-conserving and land- 
conserving local economy. | like visions that come from the spirit of 
neighborliness and care and thrift. 
But even small, modest visions can be wrong. | know this from experi- 
ence. If you visited my very marginal farm, you would see that | have 
had some visions that were right, and some that were wrong. | have had 
some visions that | could not have had if | 
had not been ignorant. 
Our political principles of democracy and liberty are meant to protect 
our visions about how we want to live and work, and they’re meant to 
protect us against other people’s visions. But our political principles 
can’t protect us from having the wrong visions about land use. 
There is no doubt that we need a vision for rural Kentucky. We need, 
| think, a lot of visions for rural Kentucky. But if those visions are not 
to be (again) destructive and too costly, then we must take the trouble 
to know rural Kentucky and all its great diversity of landscapes, soil, 
economies, and natural and human communities. We must learn 
together to think from the ground up. We can’t find the best ways of 
using and caring for our land just by forcing our visions and ideas upon 
it. The real question is how to fit in. How can human economies be fitted 
into nature’s economies without finally destroying both? There’s a 
thread of wisdom running through our cultural inheritance that says 
that everything depends on knowing where we are. It says that farmers 
and gardeners and foresters must consult the nature of 
the place. It says 
that in any given place there are certain things that nature will permit us 
to do without damage, certain things that nature will help us to do, and 
certain things that nature will penalize or punish us for doing. 
To hold securely in possession and in trust a beautiful countryside, pro- 
ducing a dependable, healthful supply of food and other necessities, 
would be good for everybody. We don’t have to destroy our land in order 
to live from it. We don’t have to defeat and damage one another in order 
to prosper. There is a better way, and | think we’re beginning to find it. co 
MILLER / 
HUFFMAN 
SMALL FARMER" S JOURNAL 
sajr
vest 
nagea
aan
a EARTH WINTER 1998 
So 
Mn ~~ 
s 
