18 
You meet friends of |D at the best places on Earth, like the put-in for an eighteen-day raft trip through the Grand Canyon. If early Catalogs were thought to be bibles of the back-to-the- 
land movement, blame JD. He managed the Whole Earth Truck Store, edited the fall, 970 Whole Earth Catalog, was Editor/Janitor of CoEvolution Quarterly No. 8, on land. He churns out 
remarkably tight short short stories from an incredible memory, given what we all imbibed. He's now living outside Weston, Oregon, “trying to write for a living before | stop living,” 
The Innocents 
Abroad 
or The New 
Pilgrims Progress. 
Mark Twain. 1869; 
492 pp. $6.95. E.P. Dutton. On the Road. 
Jack 
Kerouac. 
1955; 
254 
pp. 
12.95. 
Penguin. 
Personal 
Narrative 
of 
A 
Pilgrimage to Al-Madinah and Meccah, 
Volume | and Il. Sir Richard F. Burton. 3rd 
edition. 1893; 480 pp. each. $11.95 (Vol. 
1), $10.95 (Vol. 
II). Dover. Orbit. See 
access, 
p.62. The Songlines. 
Bruce 
Chatwin. 1987; 295 pp. $13.95. Penguin. 
SONC sLINES 
Bruce Chav v1 
What Color is Your Parachute? Richard 
Nelson Bolles. 1998; 560 pp. $16.95. Ten 
Speed Press. The Seven Laws of Money. 
Michael 
Phillips. 
1974; 
128 
pp. 
$9. 
Shambhala Publications. 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
> — oe. 
i! 
A 2 
In the fall of 1968, five of us were trying to live 
together in three bedrooms, a kitchen, and the 
one bath of a stout white apartment building 
near Harvard Square. Charles, the producer of 
the unfinished film that gnawed at our waking 
lives, shared the room he reserved for worry- 
ing and tossing in his sleep with Beryl, who 
ate only with chopsticks and spent her days 
with runes and Tarot cards. 
I'd dropped out of graduate school to operate 
a Nagra tape recorder for Charles as he ran his 
lens across the new consciousness developing 
in the Haight-Ashbury. In Cambridge my 
friends were dealing blond Lebanese hashish. 
| bunked in a sweaty leaded-glass turret with 
a radiator that sounded like it was puking hail- 
stones. There were brown roses on my wallpa- 
per. If | 
pressed my thumbs on my eyes, just 
so, the roses swirled, collided, and turned pink. 
On the third floor, in twin beds placed as sepa- 
rately as possible in a twelve-by-twelve room, 
slept Eva and Ladd, two New York film editors 
who had been dropped into Charles’ art by the 
television company which had underwritten 
our voyage to San Francisco and two hundred 
hours of footage of the Summer of Love. The 
company was hungry for a return on its 
money. The film simply must be cut, soon, 
they insisted. Charles believed the film would 
bloom from his vision. 
Eva was a shy crossword-puzzle addict with 
the professional fingers required to splice film 
precisely and quickly. She missed her two 
cats, Honey and Muhammet. She wanted to 
finish the film and get back to New York. She 
waxed her shoes nightly and disliked stepping 
on the leaves that cover everything in 
Cambridge in October. 
Ladd talked loudly, chewed with his mouth 
open, and limped. He showered Eva with 
harsh direct commands. He used the triple- 
negative “No, no, no.” when he disagreed with 
Charles. Charles considered Ladd to be the 
antithesis of the film’s content, but he could 
“THe EXE CUTIONERS FORK 
by Jo SMITH 
not bring himself to terminate Ladd’s employ- 
ment. The whirling dance of Golden Gate Park 
rapture had softened Charles’ approach to ver- 
min. “Do ants believe?” was the central ques- 
tion of his new theology. 
So Charles stewed and the film sank slowly 
into a month of muddy indecision. Eva carried 
bundles of New York Times crossword puzzles 
to work. | painted the editing room floor. Ladd 
spent hours on the phone with New York. 
Beryl whittled bundles of chopsticks from elm 
twigs with a kitchen knife. 
Until one Sunday morning... 
We rotated the cooking chores for our commu- 
nal Sunday breakfast at the grey and chrome 
table in our kitchen. It was Charles’ morning to 
cook. He carefully sculpted twenty crepes on 
an upside-down cast iron frying pan, opened a 
quart of his mother’s Indiana apple butter, 
squeezed a gallon of fresh orange juice, 
whipped a quart of cream, sweetened it with 
maple syrup, brewed coffee with chicory, then 
whacked the wind chimes to call us to the 
table. We all came a-running, except for Ladd, 
who was chronically late for everything. Way 
up in the attic we heard him swing his locked 
knee off the side of his bed and begin to dress. 
Eva, Beryl, and | politely sat at attention, sip- 
ping coffee, watching the crepes cooling and 
the cream deflating, while Charles slouched 
with his chin on his chest, tracing his fingers 
back and forth along the chrome molding on 
the table’s edge. Ladd thumped down two 
flights of hardwood stairs and into the bath- 
room, where he hummed a piano concerto 
while he operated his electric razor. 
The kitchen air smelled of 
lightning and aluminum 
by the time Ladd 
nudged Eva forward, 
hooked the crook of his 
cane over the chair at 
the small of her back, 
waved his napkin twice before placing it in his 
lap, smiled, and said, “By God, let’s eat.” 
As Ladd reached across the table to yard the 
entire plate of crepes closer to his grasp, a 
knotted leather button on his camel hair blaz- 
er caught in the tines of a fork beside his 
plate, and the fork sprang off the Formica and 
down onto the checkerboard linoleum floor. It 
rang like a sleighbell. 
That tiny tinkle brought Charles to critical 
mass. He leaped from his chair, pointed to 
the fork as though it were a viper, screamed 
at Ladd, “You are fired, you bastard!” then 
stormed out of the front door, off the 
verandah, and into the orange Harvard 
Square streets. 
Beryl plucked at a crepe with her new chop- 
sticks. Eva took the cane from the back of her 
chair, leaned it against Ladd’s knee, and said 
“I shall not be accompanying you.” Ladd sat 
dumbfounded and grave for a few moments, 
then struggled back up the stairs. 
| ate the bowl of whipped cream, then went in 
search of Charles. | found him reading Friday’s 
Variety over a bowl of noodle soup in a Hayes- 
Bickford cafeteria filled with hangovers. We 
finished the film in a week, then | drifted back 
toward California. CO 
—
