GRIEF 
by STEPHANIE MILLS 
Stephanie Mills has been a Whole Earth reviewer since 1972. She was assistant editor and editor of CoEvolution Quarterly, co-edited the special biore- 
gional issue in 1981, and edited the Communities section of the Millennium Whole Earth Catalog. She edited Turning Away from Technology, which 
includes her own lovely essay on the monkey trap of technology—the embarrassing contradiction of enjoying its comforts while bemoaning the totali- 
ty of its effects. Her other books include In Service of the Wild: Restoring and Reinhabiting Damaged Land (Beacon) and In Praise of Nature (Island Press) 
She now lives and writes in Maple City, Michigan, where the temperate broadleaf forests mix with the sub-polar, all modified by the Great Lakes and us. 
As | recall, Stewart Brand had the thought that became the Whole Earth 
Catalog while looking out the airplane window on the trip home from his 
father’s funeral. Only now, having fairly recently flown home from my 
mother’s memorial service, am | beginning to understand the momentous- 
ness of a parent’s death. | can only admire Stewart all the more for having 
acted upon that moment and transmuted his grief into a creation as rich 
and significant as the Catalog. If the death of a man’s father happens to 
give rise to the altruistic experiment of providing access to tools for those 
who would get good at being gods, what idea might arise in the mind of a 
woman who has just been initiated into the communion of motherless 
children? 
The answer is not an idea, but some inchoate liberation within, whose ele- 
ments are surrender and resignation. Death is huge, baffling. Although | 
saw and touched my mother’s cool, still body at the mortuary and 
watched her coffin enter the crematorium, | cannot comprehend what has 
happened. With my mother died the body that made me here on Earth 
and any existential claim to mammal nurture | might have. Now comes the 
task of fostering the wisdom born of sorrow. It would be good to have 
some conceptual news or a brilliant vision, but all I’ve got is my longtime 
mix of melancholy and a pinch of hope. 
The melancholy is engendered by all that looks unstoppable. After, say, 
10,000 years of human history, it seems to me that we have less of every- 
thing that we started out with except human beings and their increasingly 
similar artifacts. Maybe this was all meant to be, the price (tendered 
mostly by first peoples, other species, earlier times) to be paid for our 
species to wise up and design for living on this particular planet. We have 
reduced the ecosphere through sheer inadvertence and now must find 
ways to live with what we’ve done. There’s that relentless memory hole 
that devours any sense that there were ever other kinds and ways of life 
than what we know now. 
or 
Dincteet ond 
Cabaece Teer 
ety Monee | 
Abitny 
ualetate ant 
Boat Halt 
eee 
ae 
Personally, | haven’t much zeal for the 
adventure of forward change. Yet | am so 
grateful that there are individuals and groups 
who see things whole and real, who don’t repine and 
do invent. 
Intelligence —embodied, applied, undomesticated intelligence —mind 
in 
nature and keeping nature in mind—is ever what makes the difference. 
Aesthetic values—as in sailboat, fibula, talon austerity, squash tendril, 
bird wing, knife blade elegance —afford a discipline that can set us on the 
beauty way. Applying some rigor in penetrating the desiderata of “place,” 
“community,” and “sustainability” 
—to their hard cores—might make a 
difference. 
How we come to a knowing acceptance of the conditions we'll confront in 
the not-so-distant future, how we do our suffering once these globalizing, 
simplifying, homogenizing processes have climaxed, how we do our griev- 
ing for the wastage of our Mother Earth; those inward and cultural 
processes, those anvils of truth, could forge the difference in us. 
| didn’t invoke the fact of my mother’s death to serve as a metaphor, or to 
parlay my personal grief into an elegy on the demise of the biosphere. | 
just wanted to explain the nullity of my imagination and why news seems 
less important than memory just now, and difference less salient than 
continuity. Life and death and time are still the daemons of difference on 
planet Earth. As my neighbor Peggy says to perspectify her worries, “In a 
hundred years, all new people!” Plus post-Cenozoic ecosystems, water- 
shed cultures, unprecedented circumstances, redefined optima, and other 
grounds for hope. 
Till then, says Sterling Bunnell (in Gnosis No. 33): “Don’t panic. Try 
to appreciate your own lives, and try to help a little loveliness to 
continue.” oo 
Other interactions of environment and health 
include evolution of new diseases, especially 
new bacterial strains, and other factors con- 
tributing to the weakening of human immunity 
and defenses. We’ll have to see what happens 
with these new diseases, but there is reason 
to be worried. Integrative medicine looks at 
antibiotics, for instance, in several ways. 
First, it doesn’t reject antibiotics totally, but 
tries to teach people when it’s appropriate to 
use them. Second, it tries to strengthen the 
body’s defenses rather than just attack the 
germs; that approach especially comes from 
Chinese medicine. 
A few years ago, | was with a Japanese scien- 
tist whose field of research was herbal medi- 
cine. He had just done a speaking tour of the 
US and was struck by how closed to this infor- 
mation the American scientific and medical 
establishments are, in contrast with those in 
other countries. The interface of environment 
and health and the medical profession’s role in 
understanding the larger ramifications of med- 
icinal plants, horticulture, and species protec- 
tion is a huge issue. Certain medicinal plants, 
for instance, will actually become endangered 
because of recent demand. Wild echinacea is 
one that’s probably in danger. Goldenseal is 
already endangered. That’s something that 
the New Age never expected to be the result 
of success. 
Nevertheless, we must not abandon the diag- 
nostic rigor of modern medicine. At least at 
this point, for instance, diseases affecting 
“environmentally sensitive” people are prob- 
lematical. There are practitioners and clinics 
that are making their living off of such people. 
There’s definitely not agreement within scien- 
tific medicine about what this is. It’s unclear 
to me that it is a really definable condition or 
how much of it is psychological. It’s unknown. 
But it does seem as if there is an increase of 
illness of all sorts that may have roots in envi- 
ronmental toxicity. 
| tell prospective doctors to get out and edu- 
cate themselves about important things 
before they start formal training, and to 
exploit any free time during their training to 
gain other perspectives and learn things that 
they’re not getting in their standard educa- 
tion. | don’t think that a curriculum exists for 
students to learn to integrate all aspects of 
the environment with medicine. It’s time to 
create one. co 
Turning 
Away From 
Technology 
Turning Away from Technology. 
Stephanie Mills. 1997; 256 pp. $18. Sierra 
Club Books. Who Dies? An Investigation 
of Conscious Living and Conscious 
Dying. Stephen Levine. Reissue edition, 
1989; 317 pp. $11.95. Anchor. The 
Harvard Guide to Women’s Health. Karen 
J. Carlson, Stephanie A. Eisenstat, and 
Terra Ziporyn. 1996; 718 pp. $24.95. 
Harvard University Press. Spontaneous 
Healing. Andrew Weil. Reprint edition, 
1996; 309 pp. $12.95. Ballantine Books. 
The Essential Book of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine. Voumes 1 and 2. Liu 
Yanchi. 1987; 305 and 479 pp. $19.50 
each. Columbia University Press. 
BOTH IMAGES FROM THE ESSENTIAL BOOK OF CHINESE MEDICINE 
