by yoy KINNEY 
ask him to draw more cartoons. 
I'd like to propose something radical: maybe, just maybe, most conser- 
vatives and liberals, leftists and rightists are well-intentioned people 
sincerely looking to improve things. This throws a monkeywrench in the 
works as far as political loyalties go, since one’s opponents are brutes 
and scoundrels who are misguided at best and more likely nasty and 
evil. But let’s suppose they aren’t. Where does this take us? 
For starters, it brings up another unsettling proposition: both sides of 
the fence may have valuable insights as well as mistaken assumptions. 
It encourages us to extricate ourselves from pat ideological battles and 
consider alternatives beyond options A or B. This is attractive because 
neither full-bore communism nor so-called democratic capitalism has 
worked terribly well. 
Communism imploded a decade ago, destabalized by its own contra- 
dictions and its inability to provide enough desirable consumer goods. 
Meanwhile, deregulated capitalism has an uncanny knack for consoli- 
dation leading to monopolization (witness recent moves in telecommu- 
nications and banking) and the liberal democracies are hobbled by 
voter apathy and elite manipulation. In sum, it’s a case of either too 
few color TVs or too many. Both the left and right have tended to 
focus on material solutions to an essentially spiritual dilemma: what 
can bring us happiness in a world stripped of any sense of harmony 
or integration? 
A third approach has been in the air for quite some time, with valiant 
stabs made by the Greens, bioregionalists, and Fourth World activists 
who’ve opted out of the bi-polar tennis match. They’ve brought the 
environment into the political debate and started sifting through the 
ideological ashes. But leave it to those grand opportunists, Bill Clinton 
and Tony Blair, to invoke the rhetoric of a new “Third Way” as a kind of 
pro-active centrism which amounts to lukewarm social democrats 
scraping the bibs of their Wall Street siblings and offering the scraps to 
the disadvantaged kids next door. If we don’t watch out we may get the 
same old stuff repackaged as an antidote to itself. 
Why is it so hard to even conceptualize a truly alternative politics? The 
pundits, policy wonks, and activists, our political protectors, have a 
vested interest in keeping things within familiar bounds. They know 
which side their bread is buttered on, and escaping the left/right tread- 
mill can be truly scary. The last time any serious alternative to our 
familiar political ruts was tried out, it involved brown shirts and tber- 
menschen and maximum leaders who left half of Europe in smoking 
ruins. No one wants to go out on that limb again. 
The good news is that there are signs of non-aligned alternative poli- 
tics coalescing from the bottom up. Two current examples are 
| 
Income of Richest Fifth of 
Population Compared with 
Poorest Fifth, 1980-87 
— 
Multiples. 
Costa Rica 16.5 
Botswana 23.6 
Brazil 26.1 
Hungary 3 
Malaysia 11.1 
Poland 3.6 
India 5.1 
Switzerland 8.6 
Neth. 5.6 
Hong Kong 8.7 
Sri Lanka 11.7 
Germany 5.7 
Philippines 8.7 
Peru 11.8 
Spain 5.8 
USA 8.9 
Colombia 13.3 
Pakistan 5.8 
Colombia 13.3 
Norway 5.9 
WHITHERING POLITICS? 
Jay Kinney is presently editor of Gnosis and formerly an editor of CoEvolution Quarterly and Whole Earth Review. He is 
the person we search out when it comes to fringe groups or a Big Picture view of the political spectrum. If he had time, we'd 
Democracy Unlimited of Humboldt County (DUHO) in California, and the 
node of activity developing around the renegade political philosopher 
Richard K. Moore. Both defy traditional left/right pigeonholes and speak 
to concerned activists across the political spectrum. They are analysizing 
the present malaise, networking with other grassroots groups, and iden- 
tifying practical arenas where small changes can begin to be made. 
DUHC emphasizes the economic and social roles corporations have 
played since their creation as legal entities in the eighteenth century. 
Has our democratic framework been distorted by corporate entities 
that are treated by the law as persons yet whose directors are exempt 
from direct responsibility? How has corporations’ ability to last in 
perpetuity affected the distribution of economic resources and 
power? These questions are intriguing because their answers are 
not immediately self-evident. 
Richard K. Moore, a retired Silicon Valley software engineer living in 
Ireland who now devotes his time to socio-economic inquiry, is the most 
provoking non-orthodox theorist at work today. Moore focuses on how 
the process of economic and political globalization is rapidly evolving to 
benefit transnational corporations and allied elites as it dismantles the 
sovereignity of nation states. He identifies an authoritarian impulse in 
the steady erosion of civil liberties, privacy, human-scale enterprises, 
and democratic participation, a kind of “stealth fascism” ripening under 
the guise of anti-terrorism and the drug war. This, no doubt, sounds 
extreme and paranoid, but Moore’s reasoned analysis avoids most of the 
pitfalls found in the conspiracy theories retailed by the John Birch 
Society or the Montana Militia. 
As befits the late nineties, both DUHC and Moore’s materials are readily 
available on the Web. Moore has a very active email discussion list 
where a remarkably varied network of activists refines his theories and 
puts them to the test. Only time will tell whether these fledgling groups 
carry the seeds of a wider political movement to come or whether the 
steamroller of history will run them over. My hunch is that if people of 
good will from both the left and right can find sufficient common ground 
to work together towards changes that both agree upon, things could 
really start rocking. CO 
Democracy Unlimited of Humboldt County 
PO Box 27, Arcata, CA 95518 
http://www.monitor.net/democracyunlimited 
Citizens for a Democratic Renaissance (Moore’s networking organization) 
c/o Jan Slakov 
PO Box 35, Weymouth, NS 
Canada BoW 3To 
http://cyberjournal.org 
in Millions, 1980. 
Top Ten Military and | 
Paramilitary Forces, 
{144 
Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement 
Without Giving In. Roger 
Fisher and 
William 
Ury. 2nd edition, 1991; 187 pp. 
$12.95. Houghton Mifflin. The Ends of the 
Earth: From Togo to Turkmenistan, from 
Iran 
to Cambodia, 
a Journey 
to the 
Frontiers of Anarchy. Robert 
D. Kaplan. 
1997; 476 pp. $15. Random House. Silent 
Spring. Rachel Carson. 1962; 304 pp. $13. 
Houghton Mifflin. And The Band Played 
On: 
Politics, 
People, 
and 
the 
AIDS 
Epidemic. Randy Shilts. 
1988; 640 pp. 
$16.95. Penguin. The Eleventh Plague: The 
Politics 
of Biological 
and 
Chemical 
Warfare. Leonard A. Cole. 1997; 284 pp. 
$14.95. W.H. Freeman. Genetics and the 
Manipulation of Life: The Forgotten Factor 
of Context. Craig Holdrege. 1996; 176 pp. 
$14.95. Lindisfarne Books, 3390 Route 9, 
Hudson, NY 12534, 518/851-9155. The 
Mountain People. Colin M. Turnbull. 1972; 
309 pp. $12. Simon & Schuster. 
A JOURNEY 
AT THE DAWN 
OF THE 
21ST CENTURY 
China 
USSR 
USA 
India 
Iraq 
Vietnam 
N. Korea Egypt Pakistan S. Korea 
4.9 
4.5 
2.2 
1.9 
a8. el 
acG, 
1.3 
0.8 
0.8 
