BEAUTY 
CARNIVAL 
by BRIAN ENO 
A Model for Culture 
Brian Eno is known as a record producer (U2, David Bowie, Talking Heads, Laurie Anderson). This is too small a box for 
a musician, composer, artist, and writer. I've rarely met a more erudite, surprising, and matrixed mind. His book A Year with 
Swollen Appendices, is a crystal teacher of the daily practice of keeping “naturalist” observations. He's a patron of the 
‘ 
Institute of Social Inventions, which offers attitude jogging for longevity (see more in our Spring 1999 issue). 
COURTESY 
OF 
THE 
METROPOLITAN 
yy 
Usey, 
M Of 
Arr 
are involved. Carnival is good when there’s too 
much to look at and everything’s mixed up and 
you have to sort it all out for yourself. Carnival 
What makes for a great carnival? I’ve pon- 
dered this question, as I’ve watched, year by 
year, the Notting Hill Carnival in London 
expanding to become the world’s second 
is good when it dignifies and rewards all sorts 
DoubleTake. 
Robert Coles, editor. 
$32. Center for Documentary Studies, 
Duke University, 
1317 W. Pettigrew 
Street, Durham, NC 27705, 800/964- 
8301. Looking at Photographs: 100 
Pictures from the Collection of the 
Museum 
of 
Modern 
Art. 
John 
Szarkowski. Out of print. 
largest (after Rio’s). 
My conclusions: Carnival is good when the 
number of participants isn’t grossly out- 
weighed by the number of spectators. Carnival 
is good when many of the ‘spectators’ are 
actually also joining in (dancing and singing 
along). Carnival is good when the participants 
exhibit a range of skills from the absolutely 
minimal to the absolutely astonishing (the 
of abilities—singing, jumping, laughing infec- 
tiously, dressing weirdly, writing the hit song 
of the carnival, wiggling your backside, stand- 
ing on a soapbox praising Jesus or the local 
hardware store, frying salt fish over an oil 
drum in public, inventing symphonic arrange- 
ments for steel bands, designing and building 
fabulously impossible things. Carnival is good 
when people try to outdo each other, and then 
applaud with delight those who in turn outdo 
when it gives peo- 
ple the feeling that they’re 
really lucky to be alive right here and now. 
Carnival is good when it leaves people with the 
feeling that life in all its bizarre manifestations 
is unbeatably lovely and touching and funny 
and worthwhile. 
Now substitute ‘culture’ for ‘carnival.’ 
them. Carnival is good when it gives people an 
There’s a vision for the future of culture. CO 
alibi to become someone different. Carnival is 
good when it lets people present the best part 
of themselves, and be, for a little while, as 
they’d like to be all the time. Carnival is good 
first being an invitation not to be intimidat- 
ed—“Hey! | could do that!”—and the second 
an invitation to be amazed). Carnival is good 
when people of all ages, sexes, races, shapes, 
sizes, beauties, inclinations, and professions 
LINEAGES AND LEGACIES 
by ANNE WALOMAN 
Anne Waldman has been one of my teachers in the realm of Buddhism and a muse and sweet advocate of my writing. She has astounding energy, 
which she uses to help everyone in the same manner. Her energy bursts/blossoms in poetry like Fast Speaking Woman and her performance poetry 
“readings.” Twenty-five years ago, she and Allen Ginsberg cofounded the Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics, which now sports BA and 
Impro: Improvisation and the Theatre. 
Keith Johnstone. 1989; 208 pp. $16.99. 
Routledge/Theatre Arts Books. 
one 
ayes 
vx 
KB 
OOS 
MFA programs (see access). 
Temporary Autonomous Zones, Hakim 
4 
j 
Bey’s phrase, are increasingly important. 
The squeeze is on. How nourishing it is just to 
get together with a clutch of friends and read and study (the Robert 
Duncan Group, the James Joyce Group, the Surrealist'Cell, Beats & Beyond, 
Shakespeare for Poets, etc.). Last New Year’s Eve friends, family, communi- 
ty, students gathered at my home to welcome in the year with readings of 
the honeyed, sharp & wise-tongued folk who'd passed on: Allen Ginsberg, 
William Burroughs, Denise Levertov, Kathy Acker, Elio Schneeman, James 
Laughlin. Keeping the flame going with vocalization of their mind 
breaths and seed syllables is the ongoing ritual. 
Everyone has a Story or poem to tell, everyone is interested in reading 
something besides newspapers or waiting to turn off the set. Refine 
the senses through colorful vivid language! Use the imagination! 
The hell realms of planet earth are versions of ego-maniacal 
power made hungry ghosts! It’s bad poetry! It’s land grabs, fossil- 
fuel driven, genocides of all kinds that need our limber-witted 
poetic attention and muscle. Jump in, turn it around! So we’ve got 
an activist agenda. And hundreds of graduates from the Jack Kerouac 
School of Disembodied Poetics (at Naropa Institute) are out there 
spawning their own projects, schools, publications, bookstores, mani- 
festos, “To Keep The World Sane For Poetry,” as our motto goes. In 
Seattle, in Prague, in New York City. 
Drawing on the Right Side of Brain. 
Betty Edwards. 1989; 254 pp. $25.95. 
J.P. Tarcher. The Natural Way to Draw: 
A Working Plan for Art Study. Kimon 
Nicolaides. 
1990; 
221 
pp. 
$14. 
Houghton Mifflin. 
Drawing on the 
The legacies run deep. 
Right Side of _ 
the Brain 
| fe 
Betty 
Edwards 
: 
Y | 
Well, while I’m here I'll 
do the work — 
and what’s the Work? 
to ease the pain of living. 
NICOLAIDES THE 
; 
met 
NATURAL WAY 
Everything else, drunken 
<a 
dumbshow. 
— Allen Ginsberg, 
from “Memory Gardens” ce 
KEN 
BOTTO 
A Different Beat: Writings by Women of the Beat Generation. 
Richard Peabody, ed. 1997; 235 pp. 
$13.99. Serpent’s Tail. Women of the Beat Generation: The Writers, Activists, and Muses at the Heart 
of a Revolution. Brenda Knight, ed. 1996; 384 pp. $19.95 Conari Press. Collected Poems: 1947-1980. 
Allen Ginsberg. Reprint edition, 1998; 837 pp. $23-HarperCollins. Fast Speaking Woman: Chants and 
Essays. Anne Waldman. Expanded Edition, 1996; 159 pp. $10.95. City Lights Books, 261 Columbus 
Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94133, 415/362-8193, www.citylights.com. Naked Lunch. 
William S. 
Burroughs. Reissue edition, 1992; 255 pp. $9.95. Grove Press. The Beat Book. Anne Waldman, ed. 
1996; 300 pp. $24. Shambhala. The Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics. Naropa Institute, 
Admissions Office, 2130 Arapahoe Avenue, Boulder, CO 80302, 303/546-3583, Www.naropa.edu. 
WHOLE EARTH WINTER 1998 
