Announcing 
the Margaret Mead 2001 Awards 
recognizing community creativity 
for anew century 
from the Margaret Mead Centennial Committee, Institute of Intercultural Studies, and Whole Earth 
“Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. 
Indeed, it’s the only thing that ever has.” 
When Margaret Mead died in 1978, she was the most famous anthropologist in the world. In her honor, starting in 1999 and continuing 
through 2001, the centennial year of Margaret Mead’s birth, Whole Earth and Margaret Mead’s foundation, the Institute of Intercultural 
Studies, will join together to honor small groups of thoughtful, committed citizens who have changed the world. 
Mead always believed in the human capacity to change, insisting that the cultural habits of racism, warfare, and environmental exploitation 
are learned. She promoted human diversity as a teaching tool; pointed to modified traditions and new institutions that had successfully 
adapted to a changing world; and praised groups who were inspirations, models and vehicles for learning from one another. Her goal was 
nothing less than intercultural and international understanding as a foundation for human freedoms. 
If you know of a small group (fewer than 100 people) anywhere on the planet that has worked to change the world; that has cross-connected 
issues such as race, environment, intergenerational learning, child rearing, and gender understanding; that has developed an organization 
or Series of tools that others can learn from; and that takes a long view of cultural understanding, please send your nominations to: 
Mead 2001 Awards 
PO Box 3223 
Petersborough, NH 03458 
or nominate@mead2001.0rg 
LIVING TECHNOLOGIES 
FOR A LIVING PLANET 
by JOHN ANDO NANCY JACK TODD 
From the headwaters of creativity, the Todds floated to the innovative mainstream. They're great tinkerers and inventors 
of biological sewage treatment plants (with real plants and fish and snails and..) and other components of ecological sus- 
tainability, including an effective demonstration project to clean up toxics in Chattanooga (see Chattanooga Sludge). They 
work from Ocean Arks International and publish (with Lindisfarne) a thoughts-full newspaper called Annals of Earth. 
Humanity’s present overarching crisis has 
been summarized by author and environmental 
educator David Orr as follows: “The problem 
is simply how a species pleased to call itself 
Homo sapiens fits on a planet with a biosphere.” 
“This is a design problem,” he maintains, “and 
requires a design philosophy that takes time, 
velocity, scale, evolution, and ecology seriously.” 
The design philosophy that David Orr advo- 
cates is emerging from our research of the last 
thirty years. It is now being codified into a sci- 
entific discipline and successfully implement- 
ed in a number of areas critical to both Homo 
Sapiens and our biosphere-blessed planet. 
Gregory Bateson, who pioneered such think- 
ing, wrote of the mind as “immanent, but not 
only in the body” and of a “larger mind of 
which the individual mind is only a subsystem 
... Still immanent in the total interconnected 
social systems and planetary ecology.” That 
larger mind is observable not only in the 
metabolism of the living world. It is conspicu- 
ously reflected in the self-organizing process- 
es of the contained ecosystems which were 
first developed by the aquaculture research at 
the New Alchemy Institute in the 1970s. The 
technique and technologies have since been 
honed at Ocean Arks International to form 
a body of knowledge, now referred to as 
ecological design. 
Ecological design is a comparatively new disci- 
pline. It involves more than using renewable 
resources like solar and wind energy in lieu of 
fossil fuels or nuclear power. Predicated upon 
an unprecedented partnership with the natural 
world, ecological design at Ocean Arks has gen- 
erated a new and hybrid form of technology. 
This technology, literally drawing on the intelli- 
gence encoded in the processes of evolution, 
incorporates elements from the living world in 
the form of thousands of selected organisms. 
Harnessing “larger mind” in this way is a new 
step in the coevolution of human and natural 
systems. This partnership of human ingenuity 
and resilient biological self-maintenance has 
the potential to replace the present technologi- 
cal infrastructure with more sustainable living 
technologies. 
Living technologies incorporate the use of 
Living Machines, which were invented and 
developed at Ocean Arks. A Living Machine is 
made up of a contained ecosystem that has 
been inoculated with thousands of life forms 
including microorganisms, snails, fish, and 
higher plants. Confidence in their ability to self- 
design, self-organize, self-repair, and maintain 
their ecosystems is at the core of the design 
philosophy. Such a machine is intended to 
solve problems and perform designated tasks 
that can range from the restoration of water, 
waste treatment, growing food, air purification, 
climate moderation, treating industrial wastes, 
and environmental remediation. The progress 
of the ongoing research is documented in the 
Ocean Arks publication Annals of the Earth. 
Less expensive and more effective than their 
industrial counterparts, living technologies 
have the potential not only to solve problems of 
production and pollution; they are also instru- 
ments of environmental restoration. 
Widespread application of living technologies 
could prove an unparalleled and dramatic 
means of shrinking the human footprint on the 
planet. To date, Living Machines have been 
installed in fifteen states and nine countries, 
including India and Brazil. Ecological design is 
also being incorporated into educational pro- 
grams and taught in schools and colleges. The 
children and young people involved are learn- 
ing to interact with the living world, to think 
like an ecosystem. They are coming to under- 
stand their world not merely as a resource 
base but as living planet to be cherished. CO 
FROM 
CHATTAN 
OOGA 
SLUDGE 
as 
One of John Todd's Living Machines. 
In 1925, Margaret Mead lived in 
American Samoa studying adoles- 
cent girls. Coming of Age in 
Samoa became a world best seller 
presenting, for the first time, the 
idea that stormy adolescence 
might not need to be so stormy, 
depending on culture. In 1929, 
among the Manus of New Guinea, 
she pushed her paradigm. In 
Growing Up in New Guinea, she 
told “civilized” humans that they 
had a lot learn from the “primitives” 
about passages from childhood to 
adulthood to old age. She then 
extended her fieldwork to gender 
roles and, with Gregory Bateson, 
used photographs to document 
the subtleties of child-rearing and 
adult culture. In 1953, after World 
War Il, she returned to Manus and 
documented in New Lives for Old 
the historic cultural change caused 
by the globalization of formerly 
local, isolated peoples. Her acade- 
mic home was the American 
Museum of Natural History. Her 
awards, including the Presidential 
Medal of Freedom, are obviously 
numerous 
New 
Pioneers: 
The 
Back-to-the-Land 
Movement 
and 
the 
Search 
for 
a 
Sustainable Future. Jeffrey Jacob. 1997; 
257 
pp. 
$26.50. 
Penn 
State 
Press. 
Chattanooga Sludge. Molly Bang. 1996; 48 
pp. $16. Harcourt Brace. Annals of Earth. 
Nancy Jack Todd, ed. Included with $30 
annual 
membership 
in 
Ocean 
Arks 
International. 233 Hatchville Road, 
East 
Falmouth, 
MA 
02536, 
508/563-2880, 
www.vsp.cape.com/~bjosephs. 
Ox... 
= tames the 
Lehi 
1 
the vicissitudes, 
in the midst of all 
distractions of life... 
