gested the alternative and obviously col- 
loquial term, “footless propositions.”) 
10, about gremlins and red lemons, 
seems also “meaningless” by this Logical 
Positivist (and Operationalist) standard. 
(But how about statements about “the 
National Debt?”’) 
11, about Papal infallibility, appears 
false to Rationalists, but at this point 
some may prefer the label “meaningless,” 
since there is no operation to test the 
Pope’s omniscience. Or is Papal Infalli- 
bility best considered a Game Rule of Ca- 
tholicism, like “the umpire’s decision is 
binding” is considered a Game Rule of 
baseball? 
12, about Manson’s guilt, would be 
considered “legally true” by lawyers, 
since a jury, a judge, and a higher court 
all found Charlie guilty. However, since 
even the American Bar Association ad- 
mits that around five percent of all con- 
victed “criminals” are innocent, it appears 
that legal truth does not guarantee abso- 
lute factual truth. That’s why there are 
books challenging the court’s verdict in 
almost all the famous trials of history, and 
one can safely guess there will someday 
be books challenging the court’s decision 
on Manson. 
13, “A court found Charlie Manson 
guilty of several murders,” seems safer 
than 12. It will be challenged only by 
those who are also willing to assert that 
all (or most) documents relevant to the 
trial are forgeries created by some 
enormous conspiracy ... 
14, concerning the Holocaust, con- 
fronts us with exactly that problem, alas. 
Some people claim all the evidence of 
murder in 6,000,000 cases has been faked 
by a huge conspiracy. I will explain be- 
low why I think that instead of simply 
calling such all-embracing conspiracy 
theories “false,” we might more profita- 
bly label them “Strange Loops.” For 
now, I merely observe that a conspiracy 
that can deceive us about 6,000,000 
deaths can deceive us about anything, and 
that it takes a great leap of faith for Holo- 
caust Revisionists to believe World War 
II happened at all, or that Franklin 
Roosevelt did serve as President from 
1933 to 1945, or that Marilyn Monroe 
was more “real” than King Kong or 
Donald Duck. 
15, Illuminati control of banks, also 
creates a Strange Loop. If we believe in a 
conspiracy of that size, we cannot fully 
believe in anything else, including the 
evidence that led us to believe in sucha 
conspiracy. 
16, “Colorless green ideas sleep furi- 
172 
ously,” seems to be a classic “meaning- 
less” statement in the Logical Positivist 
sense, since we cannot hope to encounter 
colorless green ideas or observe their 
sleeping habits. However, this proposi- 
tion is not meaningless in another sense. 
It comes from Noam Chomsky and has 
meaning in linguistics, because it demon- 
strates that we can recognize a correct 
grammatical structure without knowing 
what thé sentence containing it is assert- 
ing. This is one reason for doubting that 
the Logical Positivist label of “meaning- 
less” is going to solve all hard cases for 
Use 
17, the Dillinger penis in the Smith- 
sonian, I would classify as purely mean- 
ingless in the Logical Positivist sense. 
The proposition indeed is carefully 
worded to tell us that any attempt to 
prove or disprove it will lead us to be de- 
ceived, and hence like all mega-conspir- 
acy theories this verges over from mean- 
ingless into a total Strange Loop. 
18, “A boy has never wept nor 
dashed a thousand kim,” certainly appears 
meaningless by almost any criteria, but it 
was evidently urgently meaningful to the 
gentleman who said it. He was Dutch 
Shultz, and he had a bullet in him and a 
high fever (due to the bullet), and he was 
doing the best he could, under the circum- 
stances, to tell the police what had hap- 
pened. We will have to consider this 
“failed communication” unless we are 
bold enough to call it Great Poetry. 
19, Beethoven’s “superiority” to 
Mozart, also seems meaningless by strict 
Positivist standards. I would prefer to 
call it self-reflexive, on the grounds that it 
refers to the nervous system of the 
speaker and is a clumsy formulation of 
the more accurate report “Beethoven 
seems better than Mozart to me, at the 
current stage of my musical knowledge 
and ignorance.” 
20, “The electron is a wave,” once 
seemed “true,” but now quantum physi- 
cists tend to regard it as instrumentally 
self-reflexive. That is, it should be con- 
sidered a bad formulation of the more ac- 
curate report “Using certain instruments 
we constrain the electron to appear as a 
wave.” 
21, “The electron is a particle,” simi- 
larly should be considered a bad formula- 
tion of the accurate report “Using other 
instruments we constrain the electron to 
behave like a particle.” 
22, about the “pornography” of D.H. 
Lawrence’s best-known novel, was once 
legally “true” and is currently legally 
“false.” I suggest that such statements 
should be considered self-reflexive in the 
sense explained above. One set of 
judges, using the only instruments they 
had (their nervous systems), registered 
pornography; a later set of judges, with 
other instruments (nervous systems), did 
not register pornography. 
23, about the “sexism” of the same 
novel, also seems self-reflexive to me; I 
think it describes events in the nervous 
system of the speaker. However, many 
people, who will agree that statements 
about musical merit or pornography “are” 
self-reflexive, still insist that statements 
about sexism “are” as objective as state- 
ments about the number of apples in a 
barrel. I therefore continue to suggest 
only and do not insist on anything. 
Maybe somebody will invent a Smutome- 
ter or Chauvinoscope someday and we 
will be able to measure “pornography” or 
SSCXISHM aes. 
24, “All men are created equal,” once 
seemed true (Jefferson thought he was 
writing an anthropological law), and is 
currently not only indeterminate but 
sounds a bit reactionary to most of us. I 
suggest we call it a Game Rule of Jeffer- 
sonian Democracy. 
25, “All humans are created equal,” 
thus appears a Game Rule of current post- 
Jeffersonian Democracy, just as Papal In- 
fallibility appears a Game Rule of pre- 
Jeffersonian Autocracy. 
26, “All entities are created equal,” 
appears to be a Game Rule of Buddhism, 
and is becoming a Game Rule of Moral 
Ecology (as distinguished from scientific 
ecology). 
27, “God told me to tell you that what 
you want is sinful,” appears true to many 
devout fans of Fundamentalist Evangel- 
ism, and is regarded as imposture by scof- 
fers and skeptics. I personally regard it as 
impertinence, but, anyway, it might best 
be called a bad formulation of the instru- 
mentally self-reflexive report “I have had 
such an astounding experience that the 
only terms I know that can describe it are 
to assert that God told me to go out and 
correct the rest of you bastards.” This 
does not contradict the fact that other 
people have other terms for the experi- 
ence, including paranoia and megaloma- 
nia. 
28, “I became one with God,” simi- 
larly seems to me a sloppy formulation of 
the report “I had such an astounding ex- 
perience that the only model I know that 
describes it is to say God and J are one.” 
This does not contradict the fact that 
other people have other models, including 
“T and the universe became one” and “my 
.
:
