CAPTIONS: (from top to bottom): 
A sketch of the scene of “an unusual death by fire” in Gwent, 
England, on January 6, 1980. According to John Heymer, a 
retired Scenes of Crime Officer who was sent to gather evi- 
dence for forensic examination, “On the floor about one meter 
from the hearth was a pile of ashes. On the perimeter of the 
ashes, furthest from the hearth, was a partially burnt arm-chair. 
Emerging from the ashes were a pair of human feet clothed in 
socks. The feet were attached to short lengths of lower leg, 
encased in trouser leg bottoms. The feet and socks were 
undamaged. Protruding from what was left of the trousers were 
calcined leg bones which merged into the ashes. The ashes 
were the incinerated remains of a man. Of the torso and arms 
nothing remained but ash. Opposite the feet was a blackened 
skull. Though the rug and carpet below the ashes were charred, 
the damage did not extend more than a few centimeters beyond 
the perimeter of the ashes. Less than a meter away, a settee, 
fitted with loose covers, was not even scorched. Plastic tiles 
which covered the floor beneath the carpet were undamaged.” 
(Illustration: New Scientist 5/15/86) 
The charred remains of a “slim lady, 85 years old, in good 
health.” She was totally consumed, except for one of her feet, 
in November 1963. Very little of her immediate surroundings 
was burnt. The case was investigated by Dr. D. J. Gee, lecturer 
in forensic medicine at University of Leeds. (Photo: Fire From 
Heaven) 
An anonymous victim with the apparently unburnt head resting 
in the fireplace. The lower torso is charred to a residue but the 
upper part is nearly intact. (Photo: When The Impossible 
Happens) 
(Bottom right) Calcined remains of Mrs. E. M., a widow, aged 
69, found dead of “preternatural combustibility” in West 
London, January 29, 1958. (Photo: Fire From Heaven) 
(Below) Workmen clear away the remains of Mrs. Mary Reeser, 
a widow of 67 from St. Petersburg, Florida, who was consumed 
by fire on July 1, 1951. The overstuffed chair she was sitting on 
was burned down to its springs, there was a patch of soot on 
the ceiling above and a small circle of carpet was charred 
around the chair, but a pile of papers nearby was unscorched. 
Her skull was shrunk by the intense heat. Dr. Wilton Krogman, a 
forensic scientist specializing in fire death, joined an investi- 
gation by the FBI, but had no explanation, saying “I cannot 
conceive of such complete cremation without more burning of 
the apartment itself.” (Photo: When the Impossible Happens) 
