Ass is also a religious novel, and the conversion experi- 
ence at the end is told with a sincerity that contrasts with 
the bawdy and farcical episodes preceding it. Lucius was 
indeed an initiated priest of Isis as well as a student of 
Platonic philosophy, during a time when “exotic” Near 
Eastern religions like those of Isis, Mithras, Dionysius, 
and Jesus of Nazareth were spreading into the Roman 
Empire. Some translators of his work, such as Robert 
Graves, think he wove incidents of his own youth together 
with traditional stories to create The.Golden Ass. 
To be changed into an animal is one kind of “‘out-of- 
body” experience, although it might be that Lucius was 
also saying that the “donkey” symbolized the prisoner of 
material needs and desires. In his out-of-body state, Lu- 
cius has a true ecstatic experience: his conversion to the 
goddess, who tells him, “Under my protection you will be 
happy and famous, and when at the destined end of your 
life you descend to the land of ghosts, there too in the 
subterrene hemisphere you shall have frequent occasion 
to adore me.”! 
he magical autobiography, with its message of 
transformation, was never quite the same after Lu- 
cius Apuleius, thanks to eighteen centuries of 
Christian orthodoxy. In the hands of writers like 
Castaneda and Lynn Andrews (author of Medicine Wom- 
an, Star Woman, Crystal Woman, etc.), however, it is en- 
joying a surge in popularity. Some things are still the 
same: readers enjoy adventure, humor, sex, and psychic 
powers. Other things are different: thanks to five centu- 
ries of print-based culture, our standards about what is 
“fact” and what is “fiction” are actually less sophisticated 
than those of the reading audience of 1,800 years ago. 
Like Lucius Apuleius, Castaneda presents himself as 
an innocent seeker making an ass of himself while pursu- 
ing esoteric wisdom. He revived the tradition of The 
Golden Ass: a spiritual journey with exotic places, mystic 
initiations, and—like Lucius’ vision of Isis—a great deal 
that the reader must take on faith. Castaneda’s readers, 
however, had a decidedly different set of expectations. 
Castaneda was an anthropologist; the books were present- 
ed as scientific fact. Editors of anthropology texts for un- 
dergraduates published excerpts to show the students just 
how exciting a career in anthropology could be! His first 
book was hailed as “a sacred text” preparing the reader 
“to witness, to accept without really understanding.” 
Unlike the Romans, who didn’t mind mixing religious 
teaching with a tall tale, we are overwhelmed with printed 
information. We expect our advertising to be labeled as 
such and our newspaper to keep its editorials on the edi- 
torial page. And so we can be suckers for authors (and 
publishers) who disguise one thing as another. The argu- 
ment that it is acceptable to mix “true teaching” with fic- 
tion is heretical in the Information Age, especially when 
it comes packaged as “nonfiction” accompanied by the 
‘Lucius Apuleius. 1951. 
The Golden Ass, translated by Robert 
Graves. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux, p. 266. 
2Professor Stan Wilk, writing in the official journal of the Ameri- 
can Anthropological Association, as quoted in de Mille's The Don 
Juan Papers, p.20. 
Castaneda’s Journey and 
The Don Juan Papers 
Richard de Mille is obviously an 
admirer of Carlos Castaneda’s don 
Juan books—in some ways, the ulti- 
mate fan. But his meticulous study 
of Castaneda’s work has led de Mille 
to an inescapable conclusion: the 
don Juan books are works of fiction, 
not fact. 
Many anthropologists have 
reached the same conclusion, based 
on the inconsistencies of don Juan’s 
brand of shamanism and known 
Artist's rendition of the 
Yaqui Indian practices. But de Mille | camera-shy Castaneda 
has gone farther, showing that the 
ae ne looked in. does, 
books in the series contradict one 
een uae Eapers 
another in details of time, location, 
sequence, and description of events. 
He has also located 
the apparent literary sources of many of the ideas and epi- 
sodes that Castaneda describes, and, in true don Juan “war- 
rior” fashion, he has “stalked” the mysterious and publicity- 
shy author, locating and interviewing Castaneda’s ex-wife, 
professors, and fellow students, and filling in the missing bi- 
ography we readers have always wondered about. 
Castaneda’s Journey is written solely by de Mille, while 
The Don Juan Papers is an anthology containing the investi- 
gations and expert opinions of over twenty authors. 
It all 
adds up to an entertaining unmasking of another side of the 
multifaceted literary shaman: Carlos the Trickster. 
—T.S. 
e 
\|n spending many hours with Castaneda over a matter of 
weeks, Time correspondent Sandra Burton found him attrac- 
tive, helpful and convincing—up to a point . 
. 
. As the talks 
continued, Castaneda offered several versions of his life, 
which kept changing as Burton presented him with the fact 
that much of his information did not check out... 
—The Don Juan Papers 
e 
A friend of mine asked, “Why are you writing a book 
about somebody you think is a liar?” That stopped me. Why 
was |? Shouldn’t | simply dismiss Castaneda as Weston La 
Barre had dismissed him? My friend supplied the answer. 
Castaneda wasn’t a common con man, he lied to bring us the 
truth. 
His stories are packed with truth, though they are not 
true stories, which he says they are. This is not your familiar 
literary allegorist painlessly instructing his readers in philoso- 
phy. Nor is it your fearless trustworthy ethnographer returned 
full of anecdotes from the forests of Ecuador. This is a 
sham-man bearing gifts, an ambiguous spellbinder dealing 
simultaneously in contrary commodities—wisdom and decep- 
tion. That’s unusual. 
It may be important. And it needs 
straightening out. 
Castaneda’s Journey 
The Power and the Allegory 
Richard de Mille 
1976, 1978; 205 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Capra Press 
Santa Barbara, CA 
The Don Juan Papers 
Further Castaneda Controversies 
Richard de Mille, Editor 
1980; 520 pp. 
$19.95 
($21.22 postpaid) from: 
Ross-Erikson 
223 Via Sevilla 
Santa Barbara, CA 93109 
805/966-2060 
45 
—Castaneda’s Journey 
