Unknown Antarctic cetacean seen by Edward Wilson In 1902. 
—In the Wake of the Sea Serpents 
and a good library, you’ll have cryptozoological reading for 
years to come. 
e 
Indeed it is not impossible that much larger moas may have 
survived until today. We know from Maori evidence that they were 
shy birds that liked to be alone. 
It has always been supposed 
that the Dinornithidae, like other running birds, preferred to live in 
grassy plains. Actually they were a very varied family, large and 
small, slender and squat. 
It is very likely that the different kinds 
had no less different habitats, and that there were slim moas of 
the plains, little moas of the forests, and heavy moas of the 
marshes—like the Madagascan Aepyornis. And some of them 
may well have taken refuge, like the kiwi, in nocturnal habits. 
Nocturnal moas, living in forests, would have a good chance of 
eluding all our searches. 
The most encouraging tangible evidence is a discovery made 
by Dr. R. A. Falla in 1949. 
In a Maori fowler’s shelter in a con- 
fined valley west of Lake Te Anau in the extreme south-west of 
South Island, he found the broken dismembered skeleton of a 
single Megalapteryx. There were also unfaded feathers of wekas, 
kakapos and takahes, preserved flax sandals and weka snares, 
which could not have been more than two hundred years old, and 
may have been less than a hundred. 
—On the Track of Unknown Animals 
jf 
Ft 
e 
The Veddahs and the nittaewo were constant enemies. The 
little men had no defence against the Veddahs’ bows and arrows, 
but they made up for it by mischief and cunning. When they 
found a Veddah asleep they would disembowel him with their 
claws. 
But the stronger and better-armed race won in the end. In 
the late eighteenth century, or so it would seem, the last nittaewo 
were rounded up by the Veddahs of Leanama and driven into a 
cave. The Veddahs then heaped brushwood in front of the en- 
trance and set fire to it. The bonfire burnt for three days, and the 
trapped nittaewo were all suffocated. 
—0On the Track of Unknown Animals 
e 
Meanwhile the North American sea-serpent, always serpen- 
tine, dark in colour, with its head raised out of the water, undulat- 
ing up and down and showing a string of humps close together, 
went on appearing as usual. 
In 1830 three fishermen, one called 
Gooch, saw it near Kennebec in Maine. 
In 1831 it was seen not 
far away in Boothbay harbour by Captain Walden and the crew of 
the revenue cutter Detector, who said it was about 100 feet long. 
That same year it was seen by some ten people off Boar’s Head 
at Hampton Beach, a favourite spot on Long Island for outings 
from New York. This time it was reckoned to be 150 feet long, 
and some thirty to forty little humps, each a foot long, were 
counted on its back. They also saw something like a horn or a fin 
near the head. This was quite new, but was to be noticed again 
later. 
—In the Wake of the Sea Serpent 
e 
The observations were made by fishermen at Anapkinskaya 
Bay, just south of Cape Navarin, located approximately 179° W 
longitude, 62° N latitude. According to Haley, the fishermen were 
questioned by Vladimir Malukovich of the Kamchatka Museum of 
Local Lore. The description in translation from the Russian 
reads: 
“Its skin was dark, its extremities were flippers, its tail 
forked like a whale. A slight outline of round ribs was noticeable. 
We approached the animal, touched it, and were surprised as its 
head bore an unusual form and its snout was long.” Confronted 
with an illustration of Steller’s sea cow, he said that this was the 
animal in question. As usual there was speculation as to which 
aquatic mammal may have been mistaken for the sea cow. 
At 
least one expert, Edward Mitchell, research biologist for the Cana- 
dian Department of Fisheries, stated that the extinct status of 
Steller’s sea cow is a presumption. 
“There simply haven’t been 
exhaustive inventories of marine vertebrates so that one could 
state unequivocally that this or any species does not survive.” 
He goes on to suggest that the area should be surveyed by ship. 
| could not agree with him more. 
—Searching for Hidden Animals 
e 
The earliest stories with a definite date that have so far come 
to my attention were from the vicinity of San Francisco, in 1870. 
The series began with a small article in the San Joaquin Repubii- 
can on September 19, in a column of “Local Brevities,” as fol- 
lows: “WILDMAN—We learn from good authority that a wild man 
has been seen at Crow Canyon, near Mount Diablo. Several at- 
tempts have been made to capture him, but as yet have proved 
unsuccessful. His tracks measure thirteen inches.” 
—0On the Track of the Sasquatch, Book 2 
A female Onza shot in January of 1986 
by Andres Rodriguez before dissection 
at Mexico’s Regional Diagnostic Lab- 
oratory of Animal Pathology, Mazatian, 
Sinaloa. 
It Is the first specimen made 
available to science since the shooting 
of the Shirk Onza.In 1938, which Is now 
lost. The animal is more gracile than a 
puma, with longer limbs. Comparisons 
with limb bones of female pumas and 
electrophoresis of Onza and puma tls- 
sues will Indicate genetic and evolution- 
ary relationships. 
—ISC Newsletter 
