Stanley 
Young 
North American religious sects practice glossolalia, call- 
ing it the “language of heaven.” 
Glossolalia is not restricted to modern-day North 
America, however, and is known from many times and 
places. The Bible describes the glossolalia of Jesus’ dis- 
ciples, when, during Pentecost, they “began to speak with 
other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.” In 
China, those possessed by the Monkey God speak in an 
unintelligible language, and, just as in the “language of 
heaven” of North American churches, an initiated “inter- 
preter” provides the meaning. 
Past-Life Regression. In past-life regression, a subject 
is hypnotically regressed in time, through youth and 
childhood, through infancy, through birth and the stages 
of the embryo, and eventually back to a “previous life- 
time.” Often the subject assumes the personality of the 
previous life, speaking with an accent and recounting sto- 
ries rich with details apparently outside the experience of 
his current lifetime. Thus, past-life regression, like chan- 
neling, involves a trance state and the emergence of a 
separate, seemingly alien personality. 
The rise in popularity of past-life regression can be 
traced to the sensational Bridey Murphy case of 1952. 
Under hypnosis induced by Morey Bernstein, a Colorado 
housewife named Virginia Tighe assumed her past-life 
personality as “Bridey Murphy,” a nineteenth-century 
Irish woman who died in 1864. The book Bernstein 
wrote, The Search for Bridey Murphy, was published in 
1956 and became the ’50s best-selling equivalent of 
Shirley MacLaine’s Out on a Limb, inspiring pop songs 
like Bridey Murphy Rock and Roll and “come as you 
were” parties. Bridey spoke with a heavy Irish brogue, 
used many quaint expressions, and recalled potentially 
verifiable details like the names of her husband and rela- 
tives, her husband’s occupation (lawyer and professor at 
36 
Queen’s University in Belfast), the street she lived on, 
how to dance various jigs, and the words to songs. 
Since the publication of Bernstein’s book, hundreds of 
other volumes of past-life recollections have appeared, in- 
cluding the popular historical novels of Joan Grant. Since 
the 1960s, “past-life therapy,” in which psychotherapists 
search for the roots of patients’ current problems in previ- 
ous lifetimes, has become an increasingly accepted form 
of psychological treatment. 
Multiple Personalities. The phenomenon of multiple 
personalities is fairly well known in psychology, but 
poorly studied. The public is fascinated with this psycho- 
logical disorder, as shown by the sales of books like The 
Three Faces of Eve by Corbett H. Thigpen and H. Cleck- 
ley (published in 1957, and made into a film starring 
Joanne Woodward that same year), Sybil by FR. 
Schreiber (1973), and The Minds of 
Billy Milligan by 
Daniel Keyes (1981). 
In the simplest form of multiple-personality disorder, 
known as a “fugue,” an otherwise normal person adopts 
an alternative personality in order to escape from an un- 
pleasant situation. In 1890 the great psychologist and stu- 
dent of religion William James described a classic fugue: 
the case of the Reverend Ansel Bourne of Greene, Rhode 
Island. One morning Rev. Bourne got up, withdrew $551 
from the bank in Providence, and disappeared. Friends of 
the Reverend became worried and the police conducted a 
search, but to no avail. Two months later, on March 14, 
1887, 
aman named A.J. Brown awoke in fright in Norris- 
town, Pennsylvania. He called out for his neighbors, beg- 
ging them to tell him who he was and what he was doing 
there. Though he could remember nothing about it, he 
had arrived in Norristown six weeks earlier, rented a shop, 
stocked it with candy and notions, and carried on a 
humble trade as an apparently quiet, normal shopkeeper. 
(Left) Jamie Sams, a 
former country-and- 
western singer whose 
life changed when she 
sighted a spaceship in 
Pasadena in 1982. 
(Right) Leah, a sixth- 
density entity from the 
planet Venus six 
hundred years in the 
future, communicating 
through Jamie Sams 
during a channeling 
session held in the Los 
Angeles area in 1986. 
