I accept Amundson’s analysis of the origin and 
evolution of the Hundredth Monkey without 
reservation. It is a metaphor of my own mak- 
ing, based — as he rightly suggests — on very 
slim evidence and a great deal of hearsay. I 
have never pretended otherwise. 
I take issue, however, with his conclusion that, 
therefore, the Hundredth Monkey Phenomenon 
cannot exist. 
It might have come to be called the Hundredth 
Cockroach or Hairy Nosed Wombat Phenome- 
non if my travels had taken me in a different 
direction. As it happened, I was already inter- 
ested in the nonlinear manner in which ideas 
and fashions travel through our culture, and 
the notion of quantum leaps in consciousness 
(a sort of punctuated equilibrium of the mind) 
was taking shape in my own mind when I 
arrived in Japan. It was off-the-record conver- 
sations with those familiar with the potato- 
washing work that led me to choose a monkey 
as the vehicle for my metaphor. And I still 
contend that there is more to those studies 
than meets the eye or reaches Hawaii in 
scientific journals. 
I based none of my conclusions on the five 
sources Amundson uses to refute me. I was 
careful to describe the evidence for the phe- 
nomenon as strictly anecdotal and included 
citations in Lifetide, not to validate anything, 
but in accordance with my usual practice of 
providing tools, of giving access to useful 
background information. 
I freely acknowledge a tendency to get excited 
by ideas, sometimes without good and suffi- 
cient reason, but I remain convinced that there 
is something like the Hundredth Monkey 
Phenomenon in action in nature, even if it re- 
mains unproven on Koshima. There seem to 
me to be mechanisms in evolution other than 
those governed by traditional natural selection, 
and a growing need to identify and describe 
such processes. The Hundredth Monkey is my 
way of drawing attention to the possibility of 
critical mass in social behaviour and of stimu- 
lating discussion about it. And Amundson is 
living proof that I have succeeded in doing so, 
even if he persists in criticising an idea on 
grounds that were never offered in its defence. 
Amundson concludes that there can be no 
Hundredth Monkey Phenomenon. ‘Facts 
are facts,” he says, hoisting the banner of 
epistemological realism over a collection 
carefully selected to prove his point. “The 
factual issue ends here.”’ 
But does it? 
Science, as Ron Amundson well knows, 
decides what is possible by reference to its 
definition of reality. Anything that fits the 
definition is acceptable. Anything that doesn’t 
fit is impossible and must be rejected. And the 
problem here is that the concept of collective 
consciousness in any form stands in direct 
confrontation to the current definition. So the 
issue, when it ever reaches open debate, is 
reduced to a choice between rival facts. The 
normal versus the paranormal. Science versus 
what Amundson relishes in describing as 
pseudoscience. And of course, science always 
wins — even if it has to go through extraor- 
dinary contortions to do so. 
What is usually ignored in such discussion is 
the point that the scientific definition of reality 
is a theory, not a fact. We don’t know exactly 
how things work. All we have is a reasonably 
good hypothesis. There is no need to force a 
choice between rival sets of facts. The debate 
concerns discordant information or ideas and 
their relationship to a theory of how things 
happen. All that is at stake is the validity of 
a working hypothesis. And all that is neces- 
sary to reconcile the new notion with the old 
theory is an admission that the theory might 
be incomplete — that information might be 
communicated other than through the accep- 
ted channels. There is no assault on the laws 
of nature or the principles of science, and no 
need for protectors of the scientific faith or 
charges of heresy. 
The Hundredth Monkey Phenomenon is a plea 
for a broader definition of reality. One that 
includes the possibility of certain things hap- 
pening when minds, perhaps even relatively 
simple ones, are involved. It is, and remains, 
an admission that being alive is being a part 
of something very much larger — a global ecol- 
ogy of mind in which even 
Japanese macaques 
are small, albeit well-washed, potatoes. 
—Lyall Watson 
18] 
