Flim-Flam! ¢ The Truth About Uri Geller 
e The Faith Healers 
The magician James “The Amazing” Randi, a direct de- 
scendant of Harry Houdini’s crusade against the fraudulence 
of spiritualism, was awarded a 1986 MacArthur Foundation 
“genius” 
prize for his investigations. 
You may have seen him 
on the Tonight Show with Johnny Carson in February 1986, 
exposing the Christian faith healer Peter Popoff, who used a 
radio receiver disguised as a hearing aid to receive “miracu- 
lous” knowledge about congregation members transmitted 
from his wife backstage. 
Besides faith-healers, Randi is a 
nemesis of self-styled psychics, duplicating all of the feats 
(spoon-bending, driving while blindfolded, etc.) that have been 
pronounced “genuine” by prestigious but gullible parapsy- 
chologists. 
In fact, his book The Truth About Uri Geller is a 
chronicle of the credulity of scientists who were taken in by 
Geller. 
Especially revealing is a 1974 exposé article from an 
Israeli magazine, which Randi reprints in full, that describes 
Geller’s scandalized career as a stage magician. 
To eliminate 
the future possibility of fraud, Randi contends that parapsy- 
chological experiments should be designed with the help of a 
magician and, indeed, whenever he’s been consulted before 
the testing of a psychic, the “miracles” have failed to occur. 
Uri Geller refuses to perform in his presence. 
More so than scientists, as a magician Randi is a lifelong 
expert when it comes to human credulity, chicanery, self-de- 
ception, and the will to believe. 
His book Flim-Flam! is an ex- 
cellent overview of paranormal claims that analyzes medical 
humbugs, psychic photography, Transcendental Meditation, 
ancient astronauts, UFOs, and others. 
Plentiful photographs 
catch hoaxers in the act. 
His newest book, The Faith Healers, 
tells the full, gossipy story of the Peter Popoff exposé, as well 
as the sleazy stories of Oral Roberts, Pat Robertson, W.V. 
Grant, and others who fleece the faithful while claiming to 
heal. 
In all three books, Randi comes off as a spirited, engag- 
ing showman who has found his noble purpose: stripping away 
the flim-flam to expose the truth. 
—T.S. 
e 
"When Nasser of Egypt died, Uri was in the midst of his 
performance and we notified him of this news through the cur- 
tains at the back of the stage. The audience, naturally, did 
not know a thing about it. As soon as we conveyed the news 
to him, he exploited this information in most theatrical man- 
ner. He appeared to be fainting, and called for a doctor. A 
doctor volunteered from the audience and came up on the 
stage. 
Uri asked him to take his pulse right in front of the 
crowd of seven hundred people. 
Uri said to him, '| feel ter- 
rible. Very, very bad. 
| feel bad because | think Nasser is 
(Left) A TM [Transcendental Meditation] student “levitating” while 
meditating. This is an official photo issued by the TM Ministry of 
Information. (Right) Steven Zeigler, with no TM instruction whatsoever 
and no gymnastic training, bounces on a mat In the lotus posture to 
duplicate the levitation stunt. This unretouched photo was illuminated 
by a strobe flash. 
—Flim-Flam! 
200 
Bees 
“Psychic surgery”: The author’s hands apparently enter the body of the 
subject. The fingers of the right hand are merely folded under to create 
the illusion that the body is being penetrated. The copious flow of blood 
was obtained from a piece of balloon (seen on the left), which was 
extracted from the liquid as if it were a tumor. 
—Flim-Flam! 
dying right now. 
Right this minute.’ 
Naturally, immediately 
after the performance the audience left the theater and found 
out about Nasser’s death. Thousands of people were once 
again convinced that Uri Geller was a prophet." 
—The Truth About Uri Geller 
e 
[Pat] Robertson handed the public a real whopper when 
he claimed on one TV broadcast that during a crusade in 
China he delivered his sermon in English, as usual, and was 
pleased to learn that his audience was miraculously able to 
understand every word because God had arranged for them to 
individually hear Robertson’s words in their own regional dia- 
lect of Chinese. 
—The Faith Healers 
e 
Exconvict and faith-healer Leroy Jenkins, in full makeup, 
stuffed into a flashy powder-blue suit and crowned with a 
rather bad hairpiece, was asked in June 1987 on a CNN-TV in- 
terview about the Bakker’s reported extravagance and misuse 
of the ministry's money. 
He defended them vigorously by ex- 
plaining how he handles his funds: 
"The contributors didn’t ask where [the money] was goin’. 
They don’t ask me what |’m gonna do with the money, and if 
they did I’d tell them, ‘None of your business!’ 
I'd say, 'You 
gave it, and that’s as far as we go. God blessed you for givin’ 
and He didn’t bless you for tellin’ me what to do with it.'" 
At least Leroy tells it like it is: The evangelists take the 
money and spend it. There’s a lot of it, and a lot more where 
it came from. 
It’s as simple as that. 
—The Faith Healers 
Flim-Flam! 
Psychics, ESP, Unicorns 
and Other Delusions 
James Randi 
1982; 342 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.95 postpaid) 
Rassst 
dys FREES Seve 
The Truth About Uri Geller 
James Randi 
1982; 234 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.95 postpaid) 
The Faith Healers 
James Randi 
1987; 314 pp. 
$18.95 
($20.95 postpaid) 
all from: 
Prometheus Books 
700 East Amherst Street 
Buffalo, NY 14215 
800/421-0351 
