ee. 
i 
Alien Abductions 
Are humans being abducted by creepy little aliens and sub- 
jected to nightmarish surgical procedures? Since 1966, when 
John G. Fuller’s book The Interrupted Journey appeared, “alien 
abductions” have become a steadily increasing element in UFO 
folklore. Fuller's wasn’t the first book to describe the humanoids 
that are most often associated with UFOs, those diminutive, 
large-headed, gray-skinned creatures with the wrap-around eyes. 
What was different about the humanoids in The Interrupted Jour- 
ney was that they kidnapped two people (the famous Barney and 
Betty Hill), forced them to undergo frightening medical “examina- 
tions,” and induced in their victims an amnesia of the whole inci- 
dent penetrable years later only through hypnosis. 
That amnesic fog liftable only by hypnosis—"missing time,” 
as it came to be called—added a whole new dimension to UFO 
research. A number of ufologists began to specialize in hypnotic 
recall, most notably Dr. James Harder, an engineer at the Univer- 
sity of California at Berkeley, and Dr. Leo Sprinkle, a psychologist 
at the University of Wyoming. Then, in the mid-1970s, Budd 
Hopkins came onto the scene. Hopkins, a New York artist in- 
spired by Fuller’s book, used hypnosis to single-mindedly uncover 
case after case of abduction, surgical invasion, and amnesia. 
In 
his book, Missing Time, Hopkins published his home address 
and an invitation for possible abductees to contact him. The best 
responses became the material for his second effort, Intruders. 
One of the many troubled people who contacted Hopkins was 
an imaginative horror writer named Whitley Strieber who, with 
Hopkins’ help, remembered his own numerous and particularly 
horrendous encounters with aliens going back to his childhood. 
The account of his lifelong ordeal, Communion, received one of 
the biggest publishing advances ever (one million dollars), and 
became the first UFO book to hit the best-seller lists. 
Critics have pointed out that the only evidence for any of the 
alien abduction stories is the testimony of the witnesses them- 
selves. Though ufologists point to scars on abductees’ bodies 
where surgical incisions were supposedly made, or scorched 
patches of ground where the saucers were said to hover, they 
have produced no indisputable physical evidence. 
Critics further 
point out that most of the accounts were produced under hypno- 
sis, usually conducted by a UFO investigator predisposed to the 
alien abduction idea to begin with. Proneness to confuse fantasy 
with reality and susceptibility to even the most subtle uncon- 
scious suggestions of the hypnotist are well known features of 
the hypnotic state. Philip Klass's UFO Abductions: A Dangerous 
Game, the only book-length skeptical treatment of the subject, 
points out these and other flaws in the reports, including the fan- 
tasy-prone psychology of the “victims,” the questionable methods 
of Budd Hopkins and other abductionists, and the inconsistencies 
in the stories themselves. 
Finally, folklorists have not failed to notice similarities be- 
tween UFO-humanoid accounts and traditional stories of the “fairy 
folk.” Like the UFO aliens, fairy folk are a strange mixture of the 
frightening and the benign. Sometimes, like Hopkins's “intrud- 
ers,” they kidnap your babies. And when the fairies take you fora 
visit to their world, you might, like Rip Van Winkle, wind up with a 
case of missing time. The question is: Are fairy stories evidence 
for alien abductions in the past, or are UFOs simply the modern 
version of a continuing archetypal myth that is more fiction than 
fact? 
—T.S. 
e 
They touch [me] with these needles, somehow or other. | 
don't know what they’re doing, but they seem to be so happy 
about whatever they’re doing. So then they roll me over on my 
back, and the examiner has a long needle in his hand. And | see 
the needle. And it’s bigger than any needle that I’ve ever seen. 
And | ask him what he’s going to do with it. . 
. 
(She is beginning to get upset again.) 
It won't hurt me. And | ask him what, and he said he just 
wants to put it in my navel, it’s just a simple test. 
(More rapid sobbing.) 
And | tell him, no, it will hurt, don’t do it, don’t do it. And I’m 
crying, and I'm telling him, “It’s hurting, it’s hurting, take it out, 
take it out!” And the leader comes over and he puts his hand, 
rubs his hand in front of my eyes, and he says it will be all right. | 
won't feel it. 
—The Interrupted Journey 
e 
The next thing | knew | was being shown an enormous and 
extremely ugly object, gray and scaly, with a sort of network of 
wires on the end. 
It was at least a foot long, narrow, and triangu- 
lar in structure. They inserted this thing into my rectum. 
It 
seemed to swarm into me as if it had a life of its own. Apparently 
its purpose was to take samples, possibly of fecal matter, but at 
the time | had the impression that | was being raped, and for the 
first time | felt anger. 
Only when the thing was withdrawn did | see that it was a 
mechanical device. The individual holding it pointed to the wire 
cage on the tip and seemed to warn me about something. But 
what? | never found out. 
Events once again started moving very quickly. 
One of them took my right hand and made an incision on my 
forefinger. There was no pain at all. Abruptly, my memories end. 
There isn’t even blackness, just morning. 
| have no further recollection of the incident. 
—Communion 
e 
Sandy recalled what she—like Joyce—hoped at the time was 
only a realistic dream. She remembered that a tube of liquid had 
been inserted in her ear as part of what seems to have been an 
implant operation, and when she awoke, she found that her hair 
and neck were inexplicably wet—wet enough to have dampened 
her pillow. Her husband, like Joyce’s, confirmed these odd physi- 
cal details. 
For that matter, Kathie’s UFO “dream” experience ap- 
parently involving a gynecological examination had a strange 
physical aftermath—she had gone to bed wearing her panties, 
The Interrupted 
Mere Time 
Journey 
udd Hopkins 
John G. Fuller 
1981; 255 pp. 
1966, 1987; 350 pp. 
$3.95 
$3.95 
($4.45 postpaid) 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
Dell Reader’s Service 
Intruders 
P.O. Box 5057 
The Incredible 
Des Plaines, IL 60017-5057 
Visitations at 
800/255-4133 
Copley Woods 
Budd Hopkins 
1987; 319 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.45 postpaid) 
Both from: 
Ballantine Mail Sales 
201 E. 50th Street 
New York, NY 10022 
Communion 
UFO Abductions 
A True Story 
A Dangerous Game 
Whitley Strieber 
Philip J. Klass 
1987; 320 pp. 
1988; 200 pp. 
$4.95 
$18.95 
($6.20 postpaid) from: 
($20.95 postpaid) from: 
Avon Books 
Prometheus Books 
P.O. Box 767 
700 East Amherst Street 
Dresden, TN 38225 
Buffalo, NY 14215 
212/481-5600 
800/421-0351 
157 
AET
S
(I 
EY 
ESE 
EET 
TE 
ETT 
ES
ERT
ET 
TEEPE
TEED 
ECE 
ET 
BO
