Scientists | Confront Creationism 
and Creation/Evolution 
“Bible science” and “creation science” are large move- 
ments with a lot of clout. 
Though they are gaining ground, 
these Christian fundamentalists have so far been unsuccess- 
ful in legally achieving equal status for their views in public sci- 
ence education; nonetheless, they've been able to intimidate 
many science teachers and to influence the rewriting of text- 
books by exerting pressure on publishing companies. 
Bible 
scientists push their views of “flood geology,” creationism, 
anti-evolutionism, revisionist astronomy (e.g., the universe is 
only six thousand years old), and even geocentrism not as reli- 
gion, but as science, claiming as much evidence for their 
views as secular scientists have for theirs. By so claiming, 
they enter the realm of empiricism, where their ideas can be 
tested. 
And tested they are, in what is probably the best of the 
few books that have answered the creationists’ challenge, Sei- 
entists Confront Creationism. 
Excellent chapters written by 
top-notch evolutionary biologists and other scholars address 
the history of the “Bible science”-vs.-“mainstream science” 
debate, the age of the universe, the origins of life, the fossil 
record, biological systematics, and human evolution. 
How 
wonderful to get a layman’s tutorial in evolution and a refuta- 
tion of creationism to boot! 
Creation/Evolution is an excellent little journal put out on 
a shoestring and written by scientists and educators who have 
taken the time to analyze Bible-science claims. 
They help to 
correct erroneous interpretations of nature and to describe the 
overwhelming evidence from paleontology, biochemistry, biol- 
ogy, geology, and astronomy that supports evolution and the 
great age of the universe. 
They also keep readers up to date 
on the latest intrusions of religion into the areas of textbook 
publishing, public education, and public policy. 
—T.S. 
e 
Lois Arnold, senior science editor at Prentice-Hall, said, 
“We don’t advocate the idea of scientific creation, but we felt 
we had to represent other points of view,” and another editor 
whose book presents creationism said, “After all we are in the 
business of selling textbooks in the 1980s.” The resurgence 
of creationism in major textbooks in the 1980s is a reaction 
to political and economic pressures, not a changing scientific 
evaluation of evolution. 
—Scientists Confront Creationism 
e 
The earth’s fossils are known to occur in an almost com- 
pletely exceptioniess sequence of order. That is, specific fos- 
sils are found only in rocks of a certain age. Trilobites, for in- 
stance, an ancient form of shelled sea animal, became extinct 
Carl Baugh’s Creation Evidences Museum near Glen Rose, Texas.—Creation/Evolution 
aa 
EVIDENCE HERE | 
202 
Scientists Confront 
Creationism 
Laurie R. Godfrey, Editor 
1984; 352 pp. 
$8.95 postpaid from: 
W.W. Norton 
500 Fifth Ave. 
New York, NY 10110 
800/223-2588 
Creation/Evolution 
7 Harwood Dr. 
Creation/Evolution 
Frederick Edwards, Editor 
P. O. Box 146 
$12/year 
Amherst,, NY 14226-0146 
(4 issues) from: 
716/839-5080 
about 300 million years ago, so they are only found in older, 
generally deeper rocks. 
Other forms of shellfish are more 
modern and only appear in younger rocks, higher 
in the geo- 
logic column. 
[Creationist Henry] Morris has argued-the 
upwelling waters of the flood sorted them by hydraulic drag. 
For objects of similar shape and density, however, the hydrau- 
lic drag force is proportional to cross-sectional area, while the 
gravitational force is proportional to volume. A rational crea- 
tionist would therefore expect trilobites to be sorted according 
to size, with the large ones always deeper than the small 
ones. This is decidedly not the case, and one wonders how 
Morris, who has a Ph.D. in hydraulic engineering and a back- 
ground in geology, could seriously advance an explanation 
based on hydraulic drag. 
In fact, if the great majority of the 
world’s fossils were buried in the span of a single flood, as 
the creationists maintain, the mixing of life forms would have 
been absolutely phenomenal, and no orderly pattern could 
hope to emerge! 
—Scientists Confront Creationism 
e 
Creationists are quick to point out error by scientists, and 
ridicule it. They go on to argue that error and disagreement 
among specialists are indications that the fabric of science is 
coming apart, and that it will eventually collapse, with crea- 
tionism reigning triumphant after Armageddon. 
But what creationists ridicule as guesswork, and trial and 
error, and flip-flopping from theory to theory, are the very es- 
sence of science, the stuff of science. 
Error correction is part 
of the creative element in the advance of science, and when 
disagreement occurs, it means not that science is in trouble 
but that errors are being corrected and scientific advances are 
being made. Creationism comes on the scene arguing that 
the Bible is inerrant as a source of scientific truth and that 
“creation science” cannot admit of error because it simply 
does not exist. 
—Creation/Evolution 
Prometheus Books 
Perhaps you've noticed the name of Prom- 
etheus Books listed rather frequently in the last 
few pages. 
The single best source for skeptical 
literature, Prometheus keeps books such as 
those by The Amazing Randi in print while the gen- 
eral public spends its money on more sensational- 
istic fare. Skeptical works on parapsychology, 
UFOs, astrology, ancient astronauts—they’re all 
here. Prometheus also publishes books on secu- 
lar humanism, philosophy, sexuality, and educa- 
tion. A company worth supporting. 
—T.S. 
Prometheus Books 
Prometheus Books 
talos 
free from: 
700 East Amherst Street 
Cat 
lce 
i 
Buffalo, NY 14215 
800/421-0351 
_—LL 
= 
+- 
e
