Ice Falls or Hydrometeors (Gwr 1) 
Description: Chunks of ice that fall from the sky that are substan- 
tially larger than the largest recognized hailstones; that is, more 
than five inches in diameter or weighing more than two pounds. 
The ice pieces may fall from a clear sky or they may descend after 
a powerful stroke of lightning. The chunks may be clear ice, or 
layered structures, or aggregations of small hailstones. This diver- 
sity of structure and meteorological conditions suggests that ice 
falls may have several different origins. 
Background: Today, the fall of large ice chunks is usually blamed 
on aircraft passing overhead. Certainly, aircraft constitute a likely 
source, but there are many pre-Wright examples of this phenom- 
enon. Furthermore, aircraft can be ruled out in some modern 
cases. Nevertheless, it seems that most people are satisfied with the 
aircraft explanation — perhaps because other origins are difficult 
to imagine. 
Data Evaluation: Some of the older data may seem apocryphal, 
but there are so many modern ice falls, some investigated by 
meteorologists, that no one can deny that large ice chunks 
do fall from the sky on occasion. Rating: 1. 
Anomaly Evaluation: Given the fact of ice falls, it seems that large 
ice chunks weigh so much that the prevailing theory of hail forma- 
tion in storm cells is inadequate to explain them. The vertical winds 
in hailstorms do not seem powerful enough to support the large 
pieces of ice under discussion here. In fact, some modern ice falls 
are so large that the customary “aircraft” explanation would seem 
to be wanting. Rating: 2 
Possible Explanations: (1) The vertical winds in storm cells are 
much stronger than generally recognized; (2) Some unappreciated 
mechanism in hailstorms permits the sudden aggregation of many 
hailstones; (3) Those hydrometeors that fall after severe lightning 
strokes may be formed in the lightning discharge channels, possibly 
as a result of electrostatic forces; (4) Some ice chunks may be true 
meteors, i.e., from outer space. This last explanation has been 
ridiculed in the past but some meteorologists are now seriously 
proposing it, noting in passing that Saturn’s rings may be composed 
of ice chunks. 
Similar and Related Phenomena: The fall of meteor-like objects 
during thunderstorms (GWF2); giant snowflakes (GWP2); giant 
hailstones (GWP5S). 
The Catalog lists over 50 cases of hydrometeors. Here are a 
few examples: 
X10. August 1849. Scotland. “A curious 
phenomenon occurred at the farm of 
Balvullich, on the estate of Ord, occu- 
pied by Mr. Moffat, on the evening of 
Monday last. Immediately after one of 
the loudest peals of thunder heard there, 
a large and irregular-shaped mass of ice, 
reckoned to be nearly 20 feet in circum- 
ference, and of a proportionate thick- 
ness, fell near the farm house. It had 
a beautiful crystalline appearance, being 
nearly all quite transparent, if we except 
a small portion of it which consisted of 
hailstones of uncommon size, fixed to- 
gether. It was principally composed of 
small squares, diamond-shaped, of from 
1 to 3 inches in size, all firmly congealed 
together. The weight of this large piece 
of ice could not be ascertained; but it is 
a most fortunate circumstance, that it 
did not fall on Mr. Moffat’s house, or it 
would have crushed it, and undoubtedly 
have caused the death of some of the 
inmates. No appearance whatever of 
either hail or snow was discernible in 
the surrounding district.” 
— “Great Mass of Atmospheric Ice,” 
Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, 
47:371, 1849. 
X42. April 2, 1973. Manchester, 
England. “A fragment of a very large 
hydrometeor was analysed in the 
laboratory where standard thin-section 
techniques were used to reveal its struc- 
ture. The ice fell at the time of a severe 
lightning stroke which occurred in Man- 
chester on 2 April 1973, a day when 
Layered structure of a 
large hydrometeor. 
heavy rainfall was recorded in the area. 
Inquiries have revealed the pattern of 
nearby aircraft movements at the time, 
and it is suggested that the lightning was 
triggered off by an aeroplane which flew 
into the storm. No definite conclusion 
as to the origin of the sample has been 
arrived at, except that it was composed 
of cloud water.” The ice chunk fell 3 
meters from the observer and scattered 
pieces around. Weight estimate of the 
composite mass was about | to 2 
kilograms. One theory proposed that 
such large hydrometeors may form in 
the lightning discharge channels with 
the help of electrostatic acceleration.” 
—Meaden, G.T; “The Giant Ice Meteor 
Mystery, ’Journal of Meteorology, 
U.K., 2:137, 1977. 
—Meaden, G.T; “The Giant Ice Meteor 
or Superhailstone,”’ Journal of Meteor- 
ology, U.K., 2:201, 1977. 
—Griffiths, R.F; “Observation and 
Analysis of an Ice 
Hydrometeor of 
Extraordinary Size,’’ Meteorological 
Magazine, 104:253, 1975. 
—Crew, E.W, “Fall of a Large Ice 
Lump after a Violent Stroke of Light- 
ning,’ Journal of Meteorology, U.K., 
2:142, 1977. 
—Crew, E.W.; “Atmospheric Mysteries 
and Lightning,” Electrical Review, 
199:21, December 17-24, 1976. 
—Crew, E.W, “Origin of Giant Ice 
Meteors,” Journal of Meteorology, 
U.K., 4:58, 1979. 
—Crew, E.W,; “Meteorological Flying 
Objects,’ Royal Astronomical Society, 
Quarterly Journal, 21:216, 1980. 
X46. January 24, 1975. London, 
England. A block of ice weighing about 
50 pounds fell on an apartment roof. 
—Meaden, G.T,; “The Giant Ice Meteor 
Mystery, ”’ Journal of Meteorology, 
U.K., 2:137, 1977. 
—‘Large Hail in Britain in 1975,” 
Journal of Meteorology, U.K., 
1:261, 1976. 
X50. March 1982, Tecumseh, Oklahoma. 
An ice mass estimated at 30 pounds fell 
on the land of A.C. Hinson. Investigating 
meteorologists said that it was not a 
hailstone but might have fallen from an 
airplane or even come from outer space. 
—‘Sky Ice: 30-Lb. Close Encounter,” 
Boston Herald American, March 16, 
1982, p. 2. 
115 
