Ayer’s Rock to Tibetans who journeyed to the sacred 
Himalayan Mt. Kailash. Europeans turned out in large 
numbers to celebrate the event, and, according to reports, 
many indigenous peoples from South America and Mex- 
ico took the date seriously. Berenholtz claims that the en- 
tire population of Easter Island, some 2,500 souls, gath- 
ered to mark the day. “Never before do we know of 
people from so many different cultures and religious per- 
suasions gathering to pray for peace,” Berenholtz empha- 
sizes. “It was the largest pan-spiritual event in history.” 
Eschatology had gone global. 
2000 A.D.: SHAKE AND BAKE 
As far as millennial movements are concerned, the 
Harmonic Convergence was more pleasant than most. 
Humming and hugging on Mt. Shasta certainly beats 
standing out on a cold night with no zipper waiting for the 
flying saucers and the “boys upstairs” to arrive. Unlike 
many of the other millennial movements throughout his- 
tory, the Harmonic Convergence was born not out of a 
sense of desperation, but a growing sense of malaise. It 
did not focus, as do most others, on a cataclysm. 
Perhaps its appeal lay in the vagueness of its prophe- 
cies. As we head into the nineties, however, there is no 
lack of doom-sayers to assuage our need for an ending 
with exact and dire predictions. In May of 1988 there was 
a mini-crisis and heightened anxiety as many, especially 
those on the West Coast, felt that some sort of major dis- 
aster was about to occur. This consternation was caused 
by the prophecies of Nostradamus, a man who had lived 
in the south of France over 450 years before. Nostrada- 
mus is credited by some with having correctly prophesied 
the French Revolution, Napoleon, Hitler, Hiroshima, and 
the Kennedy assassinations—and now Khomeini and Abu 
Nidal—among other important events. 
What does Nostradamus have to say about our future? 
In two words: “Ruin approaches.” According to some in- 
terpretations, by 1993 half the world will be infected by 
AIDS. Shortly afterwards, sometime in the mid-1990s, a 
series of “superquakes” will hit the earth. New York and 
APOCALYPSE NOW! 
Florida will be flooded; California will break away from 
the mainland. In 1996 an Arab attack on Europe will be- 
gin with an invasion through Italy, and a year later New 
York will be under nuclear attack. July 1999—the end of 
the millennium—-signals the End of the World as we 
know it. “In the year 1999 and seven months / The great 
King of Terror will come from the sky / He will resurrect 
Ghengis Khan / Before and after war rules happily.” The 
seventh and final millennium will be ushered in by the 
year 2026. 
Others follow in Nostradamus’ footsteps. Take Eliza- 
beth Clare Prophet, president of the Church Universal and 
Triumphant. She is a woman who is a Messenger for the 
Ascended Masters, and as her name humbly suggests, is 
someone who can see into the future. “I think that earth- 
quakes are geological events on the planet whose time has 
come,” she explained to an interviewer from the Whole 
Life Times. “The probability is there, the prophecies are 
there, the scientific statements are there.” Her church or- 
ganization, which she had developed at its Malibu head- 
quarters since 1961, was recently relocated to Montana. 
“Our important mission in Montana is to hold the balance 
in terms of earth changes, earthquakes, and so forth. 
We’ve done that with our mantras and our Violet Flame 
decrees,” she explained. 
Be prepared for more interviews with prophets of dire 
events such as these appearing with increasing frequency 
in the near future. Whether you believe there is a divinity 
which shapes our ends, rough-hewn though they may be, 
or if you hold to a more participatory eschatology, such as 
the Harmonic Convergence, where your very actions 
make a difference to the planet’s future, the fact is: The 
year 2000 approaches. With all those zeroes jostling each 
other, our thoughts—as a culture—are bound to turn both 
backward and forward. The end of a millennium tends to 
do that kind of thing to people. Book your mountaintop 
today. They’re bound to be in short supply in the coming 
decade. 
THE END? 
... AND ALWAYS 
Despite the many real concerns mod- 
ern technology offers us for the destruc- 
tion of our world, most doomsday cos- 
mologies foretell an ending through natu- 
ral or supernatural disasters. Is this be- 
cause we find comfort in the idea of a 
| greater power interceding to save us from 
our folly, or does it suggest that apoca- 
lypse is a symbol which addresses a 
deeper psychological need? 
Anthropologists have noticed basic 
similarities in apocalypse belief systems 
throughout history and in most of the 
world’s cultures. They are usually based 
in a sense of paradise lost, and have to do 
with the resurrection of some golden age 
past, usually at the hands of some hero 
endowed with superhuman powers who 
will vanquish evils against which we are 
helpless, as in the Second Coming of 
Christ or the return of King Arthur. Usu- 
ally the believers are to be spared from 
the disaster, and will inherit the freshly 
purged earth. In most cases the restored 
order is seen as a permanent happy end- 
ing, though in some cultures it is per- 
ceived as part of the ongoing cycle of de- 
cay and resurrection observable in nature. 
These belief systems are especially 
prevalent in cultures which have been 
colonized by more powerful civilizations, 
as in the cargo cults of Melanesia or the 
Ghost Dances of Native American tribes. 
This seems a fairly natural reaction to the 
loss of land and freedom; but what about 
those cultures which have never experi- 
enced this type of deprivation? Do Chris- 
tian fundamentalists perceive themselves 
as living in the vestiges of a culture colo- 
nized by Satan and characterized by sin 
and moral decay, or 
New Agers in a 
world colonized by technoscience and 
characterized by greed and inhumanity? 
Are our ‘memories’ of a more idyllic 
past based on our infant experiences of 
being nurtured and protected by a seem- 
ingly omnipotent parent? Are apocalypse 
belief systems the adult equivalent of 
childhood revenge fantasies about the 
playground bully? Are they an attempt to 
grapple with, glorify, or possibly tran- 
scend our mortality? Whatever the rea- 
son, the archetype seems to exist within 
most of us, and it has often been manipu- 
lated politically to mollify people with 
dreams of better days ahead in order to 
keep them from taking control of the 
problems of their lives. —Rebecca Wilson 
