hardly one of consequence to the thousands of satisfied 
acolytes—or to the handful of promoters and inventors 
who are currently cashing in on the brain-building boom. 
olker Risto is founder and president of the En- 
hancement Products Institute in Van Nuys, Cali- 
fornia (a business with an unlisted phone num- 
ber), which he runs out of his apartment. Its 
specialty is “cranial electrotherapy stimulation,” or mild 
electroshock. Risto is a device distributor, and what he 
sells are commonly known as CES (cranial electrotherapy 
stimulation) and TENS (transcutaneous electrical nerve 
stimulus) machines. Despite a variety of names—from 
the Alpha Pacer II to the Brain Tuner and the BioRest— 
all of them are pretty much alike: adaptations of a medi- 
cally approved, low-voltage “black box,” or generator, the 
Alpha-Stim, often used by arthritic patients to alleviate 
chronic pain. But today they’re being promoted by manu- 
facturers and dealers for other purposes. Devotees of 
these devices, only one of which is currently authorized 
for sale by the Food and Drug Administration, maintain 
that repeated applications not only engender deep relaxa- 
tion but can sharpen memory, mitigate drug addiction, in- 
crease intelligence, and perhaps even expand brain cells 
and tissue. 
Ushered into Risto’s small Van Nuys office, I sat on a 
couch, removed my shoes, and settled back for what 
promised to be a mind-expanding journey. Risto, a lean, 
mustachioed figure, reached into a leather briefcase and 
extracted a transistor-radio-sized steel box arrayed with a 
sophisticated-looking panel of dials, switches, and meters. 
He attached two electrodes to the hollow spaces between 
my earlobes and jawbone. Then he twisted one of the 
dials clockwise, studying my face intently. “Feel anything 
yet?” he asked. 
My skin began to tingle as high-frequency pulses of 
electricity shot through the wires and into my skull. I felt 
dizzy, slightly alarmed. For the next fifteen minutes I re- 
mained hooked to the Relax Pak while Risto slowly in- 
creased the megahertz level with every flick of his wrist. 
Dealers and inventors of such machines know they’re 
treading dangerous waters. “I’m on the borderline of get- 
ting FDA approval for the Endomax,” insists Ted Butler, 
who manufactures both the $199 Endomax and the $320 
Ultron. “We’ve sold nearly a hundred Endomaxes so far. 
I’ve seen incredible results, but I won’t say the device 
stimulates brain growth—you might call the FDA. Still, 
we’re finding it useful for anxiety release, insomnia, and 
reactive depression.” 
But in my case it did nothing. I wasn’t overcome by 
euphoria or anything else. Maybe I just don’t take kindly 
to electricity. So perhaps, I thought, a fix of strobe lights 
and pulsating noises would do the trick. 
andy Adamadama, 54, conducts his business 
completely in the open—with surprisingly suc- 
cessful results. “It’s incredible,” said Adama- 
dama, an impish figure wearing a pink, lobster- 
patterned shirt and blue jeans, as he greeted me at the 
door of his New Age salon at eleven o’clock on a Satur- 
132 
day morning. Crowds were lined up in the lavender hall- 
way in preparation for one of his hourly sessions, each of 
which attracts as many as thirty people. “When I started 
Universe of You in September, I couldn’t give away ses- 
sions. Now I’m grossing more than $1,000 a day.” 
Adamadama (a “planetary name” he said he adopted 
last year after deciding Stevens was “male-biased”) in- 
vested $50,000 in an adaptable, thirty-two-station Syn- 
chro-Energizer after a night of intense dreaming follow- 
ing his first experience on the device at the 1986 Whole 
Life Expo in San Francisco. “I’d suffered nervous break- 
downs, but I’d never asked the universe for help,” he said. 
“T was working as a night watchman. I didn’t know how 
to deal with the world. Then at the Expo I saw this ma- 
chine promising to ‘tune up your brain in five minutes.’ 
And I needed it! My brain synchronized itself. I felt re- 
laxed, euphoric—wow! A year later, here | am.” 
_ Adamadama’s brochure promises that regular use of 
the Synchro-Energizer will lead to improved memory, in- 
creased creativity, deep mental and physical relaxation, 
and better problem-solving and decision-making abilities. 
As we walked down a corridor decorated with yin-yang 
symbols, New Age posters, and collages of Buddhas and 
Christ figures, Adamadama told me the machine’s effects 
are so powerful and immediate that “some people can’t 
take it the first time. They’re so wired up—they start to 
relax, and they just freak out.” 
Inside the main studio a Synchro-Energizer session 
was in progress. A gentle chorus of woodwinds mixed 
with soothing surf, low beeps, and heartbeats echoed over 
a quadraphonic stereo system. All I could see in the dark- 
ness at first were two dozen pairs of tiny flickering lights, 
dancing maniacally back and forth. Twenty-four people 
lay sprawled on beach chairs, their eyes encased in stro- 
boscopic welder’s goggles, their ears entombed in metal 
headphones, their faces bearing expressions of other- 
worldliness. Adamadama’s assistant stood at a stereo 
console in one corner, the shelf above her head adorned 
with a pink crystal ball of “plasma energy.” (“Wizard of 
Oz decor,” said Adamadama.) She was fiddling with dials 
in an effort to lull her disciples, she explained, into a 
deeper alpha, or meditative, state. 
The Synchro-Energizer does its stuff, according to its 
proponents, by entraining the brain waves to duplicate 
specific frequencies imposed by the blinking lights and 
pulsating noises. Inventor Gorges calls this the fre- 
quency-following response: shoot alpha waves in, get al- 
pha waves back. Gorges claims entrainment induces the 
same nirvanic, trancelike state that yogis labor for twenty 
years to master. On top of that, it balances the left and 
right brain hemispheres. And that, according to 
Adamadama’s brochure, “creates an ideal, ‘whole-brain’ 
state in which both hemispheres of the brain can be util- 
ized to maximum effect.” 
Personally, after lying on my back for forty-five min- 
utes with indicator lights flickering against my eyes, I 
emerged a bit dazed and rather bored. But nearly all of 
the dozen seekers I interviewed as they staggered out of 
Universe of You said the $10 cost was well worth it—and 
pledged to come back for more. 
