CONFESSIONS © pa 
PARAPSYCHOLOG 
ig 
by Susan Blackmore 
_the paranormal. I joined the student 
Society for Psychical Research there 
and ran it myself for most of the three years I was there. 
We met witches and druids, psychical researchers and 
parapsychologists, dowsers and occultists of all kinds. I 
began to learn the basics of parapsychology, its experi- 
ments and its claimed phenomena. I came to understand 
the implications of the paranormal and began to see ever 
more clearly the deep split between those persons who 
accepted the paranormal as a natural part of their lives and 
the psychologists whose science I was learning. 
My tutors thought I was dabbling in nonsense and 
hoped I would soon “grow out of it.” Instead I developed 
a passionate desire to show that they were wrong, that you 
can’t have a complete and workable psychology without 
taking the paranormal into account. I was determined to 
study parapsychology, little knowing where it would lead 
me. 
First of all 1 worked on the idea that the key to mem- 
ory lay within the paranormal. The physiological basis of 
memory was then (as now) under dispute. My “solution” 
was: there is no physiological basis for memory. Rather, I 
believed that memory is like ESP—that is, all thoughts 
are stored in some communal store and available as either 
memories or ESP. At that time I (mistakenly) thought 
this idea was both original and workable. 
I understood there were some serious problems with 
this but then, I thought, all good ideas face problems. The 
most important question for experimental science is 
whether a theory is testable and whether the results of 
those tests support or negate it. Clearly I had to find a 
way to test my hypothesis. 
There are no postgraduate courses in parapsychology 
N 1970, WHEN I FIRST WENT UP TO 
eg 
Oxford, I became fascinated with 
in Great Britain. It is possible to work toward a research- 
oriented Ph.D. at the University of Edinburgh but it is ex- 
tremely hard to get funding. Also everyone there tries to 
put you off. Nevertheless I eventually began work for my 
Ph. D. at Surrey University while teaching part-time at a 
Polytechnic (roughly equivalent to an American state col- 
lege) to fund my studies. 
I was excited. I was actually going to test my memory 
theory of ESP. I would find out whether it worked or not. 
But it was hard to start. You want your first experiment 
to be so perfect that you never start at all! But by pure 
chance I found myself able to teach a parapsychology 
course to undergraduates as part of their general studies 
program. I had over a hundred students and I couldn’t 
pass up the opportunity to use them as subjects. I set to 
work testing my memory theory of ESP. 
I did three types of experiments based on three predic- 
tions. All of them began with the suggestion that ESP is 
more like memory than perception; it is more like remem- 
bering than like a “sixth sense.” 
(1) If ESP is like memory, then the errors made by 
those possessing ESP should resemble errors of memory 
more than errors of perception. I used pictures as ESP 
targets. The subjects had to guess the identity of con- 
cealed pictures. These pictures were placed in sets of 
three. A key picture, for example a caterpillar, resembled 
a train in appearance but was more closely associated 
with a butterfly. I predicted that if ESP were like mem- 
ory, there should be more errors of association; but if it 
were like perception, there should be more confusion of 
appearance. 
There were plenty of errors in my subjects’ results. 
You always compare the number of “hits” with the mean 
chance expectation in any given ESP test and I got just 
the number of hits one would expect by chance. That 
On page 67, parapsychologist Charles Tart tells us why he believes psi exists. Here Susan Blackmore, also a parapsychologist, 
tells us why she’s not so sure anymore. Dr. Blackmore, whose interest in magic, Tarot, and altered states dates back to her years as 
an undergraduate at Oxford in the early ’70s, received a Ph.D. in parapsychology in 1980 from the University of Surrey in England. 
She's now a Visiting Fellow at the Brain and Perception Laboratory at the University of Bristol Medical School, and a constructive 
critic of parapsychological research. This article originally appeared in Fate magazine (see review, pp. 81, 83). 
70 
—TS. 
