lution of the world from Scripture, from reason, or from 
fact.” The famous evolutionist Alfred Russel Wallace ac- 
cepted the challenge. 
The wager was settled at the Old Bedford Canal on 
March 5, 1870. The experiment proved the curvature of 
the canal’s surface to the satisfaction of the stakeholder, 
who declared Wallace the winner and handed over the 
cash. The ensuing controversy spawned a literary output 
which the flat-earthers never again matched. Hampden 
launched a pamphlet attack on Wallace, freely using terms 
like knave, liar, thief, swindler, imposter, rogue, and felon. 
In January of 1871, Wallace sued him for libel and was 
awarded £600. He never collected. While Wallace was in 
court, Hampden signed all his assets over to his son-in- 
law and declared bankruptcy. More suits and countersuits 
followed. Believers considered Hampden a hero, a David 
who boldly attacked Goliath only to be swindled out of 
his victory. 
“The Bedford Canal Swindle” became the zetetic ral- 
lying cry. A flat-earth journal, The Zetetic, was formed to 
spread the plane truth, but it soon folded. Hampden kept 
the zetetics in the public eye, however, and he began to 
eclipse Rowbotham as the best-known spokesman for 
flat-earthism. (Many thought he was the famous ‘‘Paral- 
lax.”) From his home, “Cosmos House,” Hampden dis- 
tributed a large selection of flat-earth literature. He 
founded flat-earth organizations with every other stroke of 
his pen—the Biblical Science Defence Association, the 
Biblical Science Institute, the Socratic Society and Bibli- 
cal Defence Association, the New Geographical Society, 
the Philosophical Society of Christendom, and the Chris- 
tian Philosophical Institute. (One suspects he was some- 
times the only member.) Hampden also published a series 
of flat-earth periodicals. His first, The Truth-Seeker's 
Oracle and Scriptural Science Review, was founded in 
1876. His last and most successful, Earth, Scripturally, 
Rationally, and Practically Described, ran from 1886 un- 
til 1888. 
When John Hampden died in 1891, Rowbotham had 
already been dead for six years. The flat-earth movement 
had neither a visible leader nor a viable organization. Yet 
the movement was stronger in numbers than ever before. 
In 1892, the Universal Zetetic Society (UZS) was 
founded, and soon afterward its journal, the Earth—Wot a 
Globe—Review appeared. Generally known as the Earth 
Review, it was the most ambitious flat-earth periodical 
ever. 
The first issue, dated January 1893, set the pattern. It 
reported that a paper on zetetic astronomy was read at 
Breakley Road Chapel in London. The UZS publicly of- 
fered £1,000 to the editor of Science Siftings magazine for 
proof of the earth’s sphericity. A long poem, “The Song of 
the Evolutionist,” ridiculed Darwinism, geology, and as- 
tronomy, suggesting that evolution was part of the spheri- 
cal plot. Though avowedly nonsectarian, Earth Review 
was hardly sympathetic to liberal religious views. 
Within a year, the UZS had members throughout the 
English-speaking world, and the Earth Review had agents 
in England, Ireland, the U.S., Canada, South Africa, India, 
Australia, and New Zealand. The UZS published and dis- 
tributed books, pamphlets, and periodicals attacking the 
spherical hoax and defending zetetic astronomy. They 
searched scientific publications for tidbits supporting their 
views, assembling and continuously recycling a collection 
of quotations from prominent scientists who made (to 
them) damning “admissions.” A dozen or so freelance lec- 
turers crisscrossed England and Ireland under UZS aus- 
pices. When possible, they arranged public debates with 
the spherical opposition—and they frequently won. 
For all the agitation, the distribution of tracts, the free 
copies of Earth Review, the letter writing, ear bending, 
and arm twisting, the Universal Zetetic Society had lim- 
ited success. The Earth Review, which probably never 
boasted a thousand subscribers, folded with the April 
1897 issue. Its heterogeneous collection of articles, po- 
etry, letters-to-the-editor, and advertisements is the best 
single source on the flat-earth movement. 
Though down, the UZS was not out. There emerged a 
genteel and tiny tigress, Lady Elizabeth Anne Mould 
Blount. Daughter of an architect and land surveyor, wife 
of a wealthy baronet, Lady Blount had been one of the 
Earth Review’s most prolific contributors. She soon 
founded a new journal, Earth, which she edited from 
January 1900 to November 1904. Aided perhaps by her 
title and wealth, she persuaded some well-known people 
to publicly support the UZS, including an archbishop and 
a theologian still influential today. 
The British flat-earthers hoped to convert the Church 
of England to the plane truth, but their successes were 
limited. One churchman they did convert was Ethelbert 
William Bullinger, who is still revered among Dispensa- 
tional Fundamentalists. At first, Bullinger attempted to 
conceal his flat-earth sympathies. His letter in the June 
1873 Zetetic was attributed to “E.B.” of “the Vicarage.” 
When he subscribed for six copies of William Carpenter’s 
1877 pamphlet Delusion of the Day, it was as “E.W.B.” 
Bullinger finally came out of the closet in 1904 to serve 
on the UZS Committee under president Lady Blount. 
It was no use. The Movement floundered. Lady 
Blount survived until the 1920s, but the British flat-earth 
movement seems to have been a casualty of World War I. 
Meanwhile, however, flat-earthism had taken hold in 
America. 
illiam Carpenter, a well-known British flat- 
earther, emigrated to Baltimore in 1880. A 
printer by trade, Carpenter was an expert in 
Pitman shorthand, and he opened a shorthand school in 
his home. “Professor” Carpenter quickly became de facto 
leader of the U.S. flat-earthers. He is best known in this 
country for his 1885 pamphlet One Hundred Proofs that 
the Earth is not a Globe, which went through a dozen edi- 
tions. Carpenter sent a copy to Johns Hopkins University 
president Daniel Gilman, daring him to defend the earth’s 
rotundity. Dr. Gilman ignored him. Carpenter also formed 
a friendship with the Reverend John Jasper, a former slave 
famous for his flat-earth sermon, “The Sun Moves.” 
Alexander Gleason, a civil engineer from Buffalo, 
New York, was another well-known nineteenth century 
American flat-earther. Gleason used his knowledge of 
87 
