The September 
1948 Fantastic 
Stories included 
this illustration 
for a “factual” 
article about a 
Russian peasant 
who had been 
“burned by a ray 
from a ship from 
another world.” 
In September 1946, Amazing Stories published 
a short article by W.C. Hefferlin, ‘“Circle- 
Winged Plane,” describing experiments with a 
circular craft in 1927 in San Francisco. Shaver’s 
(Palmer’s) contribution to that issue was a 
30,000 word novelette, ‘‘Earth Slaves to 
Space,” dealing with spaceships that regularly 
visited the Earth to kidnap humans and haul 
them away to some other planet. Other stories 
described amnesia, an important element in 
the UFO reports that still lay far in the future, 
and mysterious men who supposedly served as 
agents for those unfriendly Deros. 
A letter from army lieutenant Ellis L. Lyon in 
the September 1946 issue expressed concern over 
the psychological impact of the Shaver Mystery. 
What I am worried about is that there are a few, 
and perhaps quite a large number of readers who 
may accept this Shaver Mystery as being founded 
on fact, even as Orson Welles put across his inva- 
sion from Mars, via radio some years ago. It is, 
of course, impossible for the reader to sift out in 
your “Discussions” and “Reader Comment” 
features, which are actually letters from readers 
and which are credited to an Amazing Stories 
staff writer, whipped up to keep alive interest in 
your fictional theories. However, if the letters are 
generally the work of the readers, it is distressing 
to see the reaction you have caused in their 
muddled brains. I refer to the letters. from people 
who have “‘seen”’ the exhaust trails of rocket 
ships or “felt” the influence of radiations from 
underground sources. 
Palmer assigned artists to make sketches of 
objects described by readers and disc-shaped 
flying machines appeared on the covers of his 
magazine long before 
June 1947. So we can 
note that a considerable number of people — 
millions — were exposed to the flying saucer 
concept before the national news media was 
even aware of it. Anyone who glanced at the 
142 
magazines on a newsstand and caught a glimpse 
of the saucers-adorned Amazing Stories cover 
had the image implanted in his subconscious. In 
the course of the two years between March 
1945 and June 1947, millions of Americans 
had seen at least one issue of Amazing Stories 
and were aware of the Shaver Mystery with all 
of its bewildering implications. Many of these 
people were out studying the empty skies in 
the hopes that they, like other Amazing Stories 
readers, might glimpse something wondrous. 
World War II was over and some new excite- 
ment was needed. Raymond Palmer was sup- 
plying it — much to the alarm of Lt. Lyon and 
Fred Crisman. 
side from Palmer’s readers, two 
mA 
other groups were ready to serve as 
cadre for the believers. About 1,500 
members of Tiffany Thayer’s For- 
tean Society knew that weird aerial 
objects had been sighted throughout history 
and some of them were convinced that this 
planet was under surveillance by beings from 
another world. Tiffany Thayer was rigidly 
opposed to Franklin Roosevelt and loudly 
proclaimed that almost everything was a gov- 
ernment conspiracy, so his Forteans were fully 
prepared to find new conspiracies hidden in 
the forthcoming UFO mystery. They would 
become instant experts, willing to educate the 
press and the public when the time came. The 
second group were spiritualists and students of 
the occult, headed by Dr. Meade Layne, who 
had been chatting with the space people at 
seances through trance mediums and Ouija 
boards. They knew the space ships were com- 
ing and were hardly surprised when “ghost 
rockets” were reported over Europe in 1946.° 
Combined, these three groups represented a 
formidable segment of the population. 
On June 24, 1947, Kenneth Arnold made his 
famous sighting of a group of “flying saucers” 
over Mt. Rainier, and in Chicago Ray Palmer 
watched in astonishment as the newspaper 
clippings poured in from every state. The 
things that he had been fabricating for his 
magazine were suddenly coming true! 
For two weeks, the newspapers were filled with 
UFO reports. Then they tapered off and the 
Forteans howled “Censorship!” and “Con- 
spiracy!”’ But dozens of magazine writers were 
busy compiling articles on this new subject and 
their pieces would appear steadily during the 
next year. One man, who had earned his living 
‘> The widespread “ghost rockets” of 1946 received little notice 
in the U.S. press. I remember carrying a tiny clipping around 
in my wallet describing mysterious rockets weaving through 
the mountains of Switzerland. But that was the only “ghost 
rocket” report that reached me that year. 
