Tarot reading; otherwise it would not be a fair test. But I 
had to separate the reader from the subjects, thereby 
eliminating possible cues from their appearance, behavior 
and responses. So I got an assistant Tarot reader to lay 
out the cards in the traditional manner for each of ten sub- 
jects. This assistant then gave me the card orders, coded 
with a letter. From these layouts I wrote out my ten read- 
ings. Then the ten subjects had to choose their own read- 
ing from among the ten. 
: 
It worked! The subjects were able, just significantly 
better than chance would predict, to pick out their own 
readings. I was excited—here at least it seemed I had 
found something, in an experiment in which I believed. 
The elation, however, was short-lived. Carl Sargent 
pointed out that the subjects all knew each other. This 
made their choices dependent, whereas the statistical test I 
had used assumed independence of choices. I had to do it 
all again and when I did, of course, the experiment did not 
work. Some people argued that it was because I had lost 
my enthusiasm, or I wasn’t close friends with the sub- 
jects, or I no longer believed so strongly as I had origi- 
nally. But these are just ad hoc arguments. The fact re- 
mains: the first experiment was slightly flawed, so its re- 
sults cannot be considered valid. The evidence pushed 
me toward the conclusion that the Tarot works by normal, 
although interesting, psychological means. 
I began to take a much more serious interest in other 
people’s experiments. Whenever possible I visited their 
laboratories and observed exactly what they were doing. 
I had access to only a few but my experience was always 
the same. The further I looked into the details, the more 
errors or omissions or methodological problems I found 
there. This forced me to realize the enormous difficulty 
that exists when the critical student tries to assess the 
weight of evidence for psi. There is no doubt that most 
Beyond the Body 
One evening during her first year as an undergraduate at Ox- 
ford, Susan Blackmore had a particularly vivid out-of-the-body ex- 
perience (“OBE”). 
For two hours her “spirit body” soared over 
housetops, across continents, and to the ends of the universe. 
The experience was sufficiently long and varied to allow ample 
opportunity for careful observation and subsequent comparison to 
the OBEs of others. 
Eventually Ms. Blackmore went on to receive 
a Ph.D. in parapsychology. 
Beyond the Body is the product of 
over ten years of professional research into OBEs, assembling 
anecdotal evidence, case studies, cross-cultural traditions, scien- 
tific research, and descriptions of related phenomena into per- 
haps the most even-handed and thorough treatment the subject 
has ever gotten. 
—T.S. 
ESP experiments result in non-significant scoring. The 
burden of proof rests on just a few studies. Experiments 
must be watertight to support this burden of proof and I 
began to wonder how many were. 
This issue, added to the fact that my own research had 
been entirely negative, seriously dented my belief. At one 
point I even calculated that in 34 independent significance 
tests I had conducted on my data, only two showed a (sta- 
tistically significant) probability of less than .05—in other 
words, a result that would occur by chance one in 20 
times the experiment is run. In other words I was getting 
about as close to chance as you might normally expect. 
There could be one final explanation for my failures. 
Perhaps psi just does not like to appear in laboratory ex- 
periments. Perhaps it appears only in real life—in out-of- 
body experiences, for example, or during poltergeist out- 
breaks or hauntings. But here too I had the same experi- 
ences. The deeper I looked into these reports, the less 
convincing the evidence seemed. Even famous cases, re- 
peated in book after book, soon lost their initial appeal. 
When I went back to the original sources and tried to 
track them down, more often than not the evidence 
seemed to disappear in a cloud of poor memory, exaspera- 
tion, and wishful thinking. 
Y NOW I WAS BECOMING 
thoroughly skeptical, even dis- 
believing. I began to wonder 
whether psi exists. I even con- 
cluded for a brief period that it could 
not possibly exist. But there are several reasons why such 
an extreme skeptical position is untenable. 
For one thing, it cannot be tested easily. One of my 
first responses to my own doubts was to ask whether I 
e 
In his study of shamanism, the eminent anthropologist 
Mircea Eliade has described how the Siberian and North American 
shamans prepared for their ‘flights’. The Yenisei Ostjak shaman 
apparently begins by fasting and carrying out a series of rituals, 
leaping into the air and crying, ‘| am high in the air; | see the Yeni- 
sei a hundred versts away’. 
e 
Perhaps [C.E. Green’s] most impressive case concerns a 
woman in hospital who apparently saw, while out of the body, ‘a 
big woman sitting up in bed with her head wrapped in bandages; 
and she is knitting something with blue wool’. This other patient 
was as described and was in bed round the corner of the L- 
shaped ward. 
Neither woman had been allowed out of bed. 
But 
in this case we are not told whether the first woman had to pass 
by the other bed on her way into the ward when she first arrived, 
nor whether she could have overheard discussions about the 
other patient. 
Nor are we given any kind of corroboration of the 
story from others present. 
Beyond the Body 
An Investigation of 
Out-of-the-Body Experiences 
Susan J. Blackmore 
1983, 1989; 272 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
Academy Chicago 
213 West Institute Place 
Chicago, IL 60610 
800/248-7323 
The “phantom” 
body con- 
nected to the 
physical body 
by an astral 
“cord,” from a 
1929 book by 
S. Muldoon and 
H. Carrington. 
