e 
At the end of August, 1958, when the construction crew was 
roughing out a roadbed some 20 miles north of the Klamath, big 
tracks started appearing in the dirt overnight. They usually came 
down from the hillside and crossed the road, going towards the 
creek. Sometimes they followed the road for a distance, and 
passed close to parked earth-moving equipment. The prints were 
like those of a flat-footed human, but huge—16 inches long, 
seven inches wide at the ball of the foot and only two inches nar- 
rower at the heel. Average stride was over four feet. All were 
made by the same individual. Most of the prints would be obliter- 
ated when the machines started to work in the morning, but every 
few days a new set would be there. After about a month of this a 
bulldozer operator, Jerry Crew, went to see a friend who was a 
taxidermist and got some casting plaster and instructions on how 
to use it. A few days later he appeared at the office of the Hum- 
boldt Times in Eureka and had his picture taken with a cast of the 
track. The picture, and an accompanying story, was sent all over 
the continent by the Associated Press, and “Bigfoot” was born. 
—Sasquatch: 
The Apes Among Us 
e 
The present analysis of reports of alleged eyewitness sight- 
ings and tracks of the Sasquatch was undertaken as a result of 
the increasing seriousness of this anthropological mystery. The 
preliminary results of our study support the hypothesis that the 
Sasquatch actually exists, in that population clines in reported 
body size and track lengths (and apparently coat colour) not only 
seem to exist but conform to ecogeographical rules. 
Statistical 
tests applied to the track and stature data support the assump- 
tion that the clines are actual and not a function of sampling 
bias. 
—Manlike Monsters on Trial 
e A Rat King consists of a number of rats found inextricably 
tied together by tails in a central knot. Another name for this 
fearful conglomeration is the Rat King’s Throne. 
All the reports of 
Rat Kings agree that black rats only are involved in these mysteri- 
ous minglings; and one reason for the rarity of the phenomenon 
today might be the savage depletions of the black rat population 
by the hordes of brown rats that invaded Central Europe from the 
region of the Caspian Sea in the eighteenth century. 
—Living Wonders 
Drawing of the Mokele-mbembe based on the concept that it might be a 
small sauropod dinosaur. 
—A Living Dinosaur? 
e 
South America holds great promise for harboring one or more 
animals previously thought to be extinct. The giant ground sloth 
(Mylodon) of Patagonia was contemporary with the earliest Indi- 
ans in the area, and there is some doubt as to when it was actu- 
ally exterminated. The animal described as su by Andre Thevet 
may well indicate the survival of a giant sloth through the Middle 
Ages. 
The jemisch of the Tehuelche Indians of Patagonia may refer 
to a variety of the giant otter (Pteronura) or extinct saber-toothed 
tiger (Smilodon). The minhocao of southern Brazil could be a sur- 
viving glyptodont, a huge club-tailed armadillo that lived in the 
Pleistocene of South America. 
Dinosaurs, or at least large reptiles, may exist in the high pla- 
teaus of Guyana. Percy Fawcett repeated stories of similar crea- 
tures he had heard in the Mato Grosso, and an odd assortment 
of monsters is still said to inhabit Patagonia. Whether any of 
them are based on real animals awaits confirmation. —Monsters 
Journal of Scientific Exploration 
This is the only scientific journal devoted to publishing pa- 
pers on “1) phenomena outside the current paradigms of one 
or more of the sciences, 2) phenomena within certain scientific 
paradigms but at variance with current scientific knowledge, 3) 
the scientific methods used to study anomalous phenomena, 
and 4) the study of the impact of anomalous phenomena on 
science and society in general.” 
For those who think anomalistics is an up-and-coming disci- 
pline, this new journal is welcome indeed. 
The first issue con- 
tains appropriately scholarly articles on factors that influence 
recollection change in eyewitness accounts (important for the 
study of UFOs, Bigfoot, etc., that depend on anecdotal evi- 
dence), experimental design for investigating psychokinesis 
(mind over matter), popular beliefs about the Loch Ness mon- 
ster, and a critical analysis of the U.S. Air Force-commissioned 
Condon Report on UFOs. 
—T.S. 
e 
The Loch Ness monster rarely needs an introduction—few 
have not heard of it (or her, under the title of Nessie). The 
roller-coaster at Busch Gardens in Williamsburg, Virginia, is 
named in its honor. 
It is featured in television commercials— 
for example, a leathery back lifts out of the water a boat-load of 
kilted and tartan-capped men, in an advertisement for Kellogg’s 
“Raisins, Rice and Rye,” shown on U.S. television in 1981. 
Any serpentine shape coupled with a suggestion of tartan or 
whisky can, as every cartoonist knows, be used without more 
explicit identification. And Nessie has been featured in novels 
ie short stories. 
Soon after Nessie became international news at the end of 
1933, she became closely identified with sea serpents, and 
has thereafter shared the same public image—of a legendary, 
mythical, folklorish creature that some gullible people suppose 
to actually exist. Those who claim sightings are typically ridi- 
culed. 
Pundits speak of Nessie in the same breath as they do 
of UFOs, yetis, P.T. Barnum, Atlantis, and so forth... 
. 
Nessie has, in fact, become the prototype and stereotype 
of the aquatic monster. 
Often, when such a creature is re- 
ported, it is described as “a South Pacific Nessie,” for ex- 
ample, rather than as a South Pacific monster or sea-serpent 
(Newsweek, 1 August 1977, p. 77); or “Cherokees have own 
Loch Ness monster” (Asheville [North Carolina] Citizen-Times, 
January 10, 1971) and Nessie’s existence serves to validate 
the search for a similar creature in Lake Champlain ...A 
naturalist’s sketched impression of a typical sea-serpent is 
also suggestive; his earlier sketch had resembled the shark- 
like mosasaurs, but subsequently he pictured the sea-serpent 
as a Nessie-like plesiosaur. 
Journal of Scientific Exploration 
Ronald E. Howard, Editor 
$40 /year (2 issues) 
Sample issue free from: 
Permagon Journals 
Maxwell House, Fairview Park 
Elmsford, NY 10523 
4 
119 
