here were these Japanese scientists in the 
50s who left potatoes out every day for these wild 
monkeys on Koshima Island and then watched what 
they did. 
One of these monkeys learned to wash the po- 
tatoes and began teaching this to the others. Then, 
when a certain number had learned, maybe a hundred 
—scientists call this a ‘critical mass’-—an amazing 
thing happened. Suddenly, all the monkeys knew how 
to wash potatoes, even monkeys on other islands hun- 
dreds of miles away! Scientists consider this to 
be conclusive proof of a telepathic ‘group mind’. 
You’ve probably heard the story. It’s been re- 
peated in scores of books and magazine articles— 
even a movie. Most people seem to regard it as “just 
another amazing scientific fact,” even though the 
story implies that telepathy in monkeys has been ac- 
cepted by science since the 1950s—a staggering as- 
sertion. In fact, the “Hundredth Monkey” story was 
first told by a writer on paranormal subjects named 
Lyall Watson in his 1979 book, Lifetide. But the 
popularity of the tale is due largely to Ken Keyes, 
Jr., a human-potential guru whose 1982 book The 
Hundredth Monkey has been through ten printings 
and sold over a million copies. 
The odd and discouraging feature of the many 
published retellings of Watson’s paranormal tale is 
that not one of the writers bothers to ask “Did this 
story really happen?”—probably the first question 
to cross most people's minds upon hearing it. The 
first published skeptical evaluation of this modern 
myth was written by psychologist Maureen O’Hara, 
who criticized the story in the July 1983 Association 
of Humanistic Psychology Newsletter and again in 
the Winter 1985 Journal of Humanistic Psychology. 
The response from many of her colleagues was one 
of hostility. They regarded her concern for objective 
truth as petty; their counterreplies paraphrased the 
New Age axiom “‘if it feels good, it must be true.” 
We've chosen to give the Hundredth Monkey 
story a thorough scrutiny, not only because it is ex- 
tremely widespread in human potential, New Age, 
and even nuclear freeze circles (Keyes’ book is pri- 
marily a proposal for using Hundredth Monkey- 
style telepathic consciousness to prevent nuclear 
war), but also because it represents the tip of an ice- 
berg of growing confusion between speculation and 
proven fact, prevalent, as we’shall see, even in 
scholarly circles. This confusion is often deliber- 
ately reinforced by writers and public figures whose 
motivation is to push a particular theory or belief 
system, and by publishers who have found that rep- 
resenting sensationalistic claims as science sells 
books and magazines. 
We begin with Ron Amundson’s definitive an- 
swer to the question, “Did the Hundredth Monkey 
phenomenon really happen?”—followed by a re- 
sponse from the inventor of the story himself, Lyall 
Watson. Then Maureen O’Hara, the psychologist 
who first questioned the story, presents her analysis 
of the current trend toward pseudoscience and 
superstition in the humanistic community. By com- 
bining the testimony of these three expert witnesses, 
we can begin to construct a composite portrait of 
this literally mythic beast that has become one of 
the most enthusiastically received symbols of the 
New Age. 
The books that started 
it all: Lyall Watson’ s 
Lifetide (1979) and 
Ken Keyes’ The Hun- 
dredth Monkey 
(1982). The latter has 
been through ten 
printings and sold 
over a million copies. 
