transcendent sense of joy. She quit her job and is now 
working as a freelance word processor. “This was so 
much better than any type of drug high. I felt calm and 
energized at the same time.” 
Welcome to the newest addition to the New Age, 
wherein growing numbers of people are turning to ma- 
chines to “tune up” their brains and, they hope, enhance 
their creativity and intelligence. The phenomenon is 
known as "brain building," and some proponents claim re- 
peated mental workouts can have the same effect on gray 
matter that Nautilus equipment has on muscle tone—turn- 
ing flabby, under-utilized neurons into robust cells rip- 
pling with brain power. 
Some gadgets, such as the Synchro-Energizer, use 
high-frequency lights and sounds to bring users into a 
meditative trance. Others depend on low-voltage zaps of 
electricity sent directly to the brain. Still others employ 
electromagnetic fields or cerebellum-stimulating move- 
ment. Whatever the methods, the past couple of years 
have seen an explosion of brain-building gadgetry across 
California. At the Institute for DeHypnotherapy in the 
redwood retreat of Soquel, more than 3,500 people have 
experienced Synchro-Energizer sessions. At the Altered 
States Float Center in West Hollywood, owners Jeff 
Labno and Larry Hughes recently installed a MindGym: 
aficionados can watch their brain-wave patterns crawl 
across a translucent screen known as the Mind Mirror or 
spin around on the Graham Potentializer, a massage table 
surrounded by a two-volt electromagnetic field. At the 
John-David Learning Institute in Carlsbad, run by an 
American-born, Congo-educated neuroscientist, several 
thousand people have signed up for seminars promising to 
balance cerebral hemispheres, raise IQs, and bring inner 
tranquility through the application of sixty different 
sounds aimed at the brain’s neurotransmitters. Timothy 
Leary has become a convert, recently regaling New Agers 
at the Whole Life Expo in Los Angeles with his lecture 
entitled “Hi-Tech Methods for Operating the Human 
Brain.” 
Dr. Daniel Kirsch, dean of the Graduate School of 
Electromedical Sciences at the unaccredited City Univer- 
sity of Los Angeles and inventor of the electronic Alpha- 
Stim device, sold by prescription for pain relief, sees 
Leary’s journey as emblematic of the new high-tech 
zeitgeist. “We’ve gone from drugs to meditation to de- 
vices in the perennial quest for increasing the mind’s ca- 
pacities,” he says. 
“There is an incredible market out there,” explains 
Denis Gorges, a self-described biomedical researcher who 
has sold, he estimates, six thousand Synchro-Energizers at 
$6,500 apiece since 1985. His followers include Carly 
Simon, Wavy Gravy, Ally Sheedy, and Tina Turner. 
Who are the other adherents of the new brain-wave 
mania? Many are seekers who have previously embraced 
such movements as est, channeling, crystals, or transcen- 
dental meditation. The new movement also has a particu- 
lar appeal among the high-techies, since the machines 
blend aspects of mysticism into sleek Silicon Valley tech- 
nology. 
Others say brain building suits the needs of a genera- 
tion raised on notions of holistic health and self-actualiza- 
tion yet disillusioned by sham holy men and prophets. 
“We're all tired of fascist gurus such as the Bhagwan,” 
says Randy Adamadama, owner of Universe of You Stu- 
dios in Corte Madera, California. “Now you’re respon- 
sible for your own health and consciousness. I call the 
phenomenon K-Mart spirituality.” 
Finally, quickie brain tune-ups offer the hope of easy 
serenity to those who don’t have the time to run off to the 
ashram and sit under a bodhi tree for three years—perfect 
for the my-time-is-my-money ethos of the 1980s. “When 
people learn to meditate, their confidence and self-esteem 
go up, their introversion and tension drop, but only twenty 
percent of people can achieve meditation,” says David 
Siever, 31, a telecommunications technologist from Ed- 
monton, Alberta, who has sold “about one hundred ” of 
his DAVID Is (Digital Audio Visual Integration Device) 
to health spas, flotation centers, and individual users. Us- 
ing lights and sounds, much like the Synchro-Energizer, 
“the DAVID 1 is bringing about ninety-five percent of its 
users into a deep hypnotic state.” 
Indeed, says Siever, so powerful are the effects of his 
$3,000 device that he carefully screens prospective own- 
ers. “We had a country-music band that wanted to buy a 
DAVID 1 and hook it up to a microphone in a bar while 
people were drinking beer. We were worried they might 
put people in a deep hypnotic trance, then start singing 
country-western lyrics such as ‘Woe is me, my baby left 
me, I want to jump off a bridge.’ And they might do it! 
People can go under quite hard.” 
ntrigued by the phenomenon and confident I 
wouldn’t “go under hard,” I decided to give it a 
try. For ten days I had electrodes attached to my 
earlobes, my temples, my forehead, and my jaw- 
bone. At the Los Angeles Invention Convention I sat in a 
Japanese-designed “brain chair” called the Cerebrex, my 
head enveloped in a compartment supposedly suffused 
with mind-enhancing rays and nitrogen-enriched air. I ro- 
tated counterclockwise on a platform while a strobe light 
penetrated my occipital cortex and an electromagnetic 
field massaged my hypothalamus. 
I reclined in a darkened room with a pair of welder’s 
goggles on my head, my eyes blitzed by indicator lights 
and my ears besieged by rapid-fire beeps. I donned a face 
mask called the Tranquilite and stared at a translucent 
blue screen while static, or “pink noise,” played through 
my headphones. I still don’t feel more relaxed or more 
intelligent. 
The brain builders are baffled. By now, they say, my 
synapses should be firing like bottle rockets on Bastille 
Day. Childhood memories should be bubbling to the sur- 
face. Michael Hutchison, author of Megabrain (see p. 
136), claims in his book that my brain itself should be 
growing, pressing up against my skull like a cheese 
soufflé expanding over the edges of a cake pan. 
Maybe I’m missing something. Maybe I’m just a 
hardened cynic who is denying himself a genuinely en- 
hancing experience. Maybe my gray matter is so intrac- 
table I’m just a hopeless case. Whatever my problem, it is 
131] 
