Jim 
Berenholtz 
Jim Berenholtz, one of the coordinators of the Harmonic Convergence, 
celebrates the transformational event at the Great Pyramid in Egypt. 
gether in a tight knot, suffering the jeers of the nonbeliev- 
ers, they waited and stamped their feet, each member 
clutching a blank envelope with a three-cent stamp: their 
ticket to the flying saucer and salvation. 
When Prophecy Fails reveals the suburban White 
Bread version of the apocalypse. Gone are the beasts and 
flaming pools of blood, the two-horned lambs that speak 
like dragons. Yet we see clearly here the formation of en- 
tirely new elements in the age-old apocalyptic paradigm. 
While there is certainly a necessary cataclysm, there is no 
mention of God, retribution, or Tribulation. This is a 
purely secular affair with no real religious (Christian) di- 
mension. For the first time, perhaps, we witness an ex- 
ample of salvation by Mother Ship. 
THE HARMONIC CONVERGENCE: 
ESCHATOLOGY, '80S STYLE 
Over the next two decades other End of the World 
movements continued to appear regularly in the media, a 
staple offering in newspapers, like stories of brave dogs 
and heroic children. In the late sixties, for instance, a 
group of four hundred “hippies” converged on a moun- 
taintop near Boulder, Colorado, to await the imminent 
collision of the asteroid Icarus with the planet Earth. The 
Chicago Tribune headline shouted: “We’re Safe! Icarus 
Misses Earth, but Hippies Stay Put.” The gathering was 
probably a pleasant affair and everyone no doubt breathed 
a sigh of relief when tomorrow turned out to be just an- 
other day. What is important is the fact that the “hippies” 
18 
felt that the End Time was the result of something abso- 
lutely external. The imminent End of the World was an 
independent and random event, a cataclysmic fist smash- 
ing into history over which they had no power. They 
came to the mountaintop to survive, nothing more. 
By the eighties, however, much of so-called “New 
Age” thinking had been absorbed into popular conscious- 
ness. Foremost among these tenets was the belief that 
“‘we create our reality,” and that our “thought-forms” can 
alter our world. The next time that an End of the World 
movement was to capture the popular imagination, we 
frail humans would at last have a say in the future of the 
planet. In the newest eschatology, we could take respon- 
sibility for our future. At last, humans could “make a dif- 
ference” when it came time for the age of the apocalypse. 
The Harmonic Convergence (August 16/17, 1987) 
was just such an event. Unlike the linear Christian escha- 
tology, the Harmonic Convergence was based on a cycli- 
cal conception of time, the Mayan calendar. The Har- 
monic Convergence marked the beginning of the last 
cycle of Mayan ages, and involved pilgrimages to sacred 
sites, as well as the other accoutrements of the New Age: 
crystals, meditation, chanting, hugging, and ceremonies. 
The precursors of the Harmonic Convergence were 
global activities such as Earth Day and Band-Aid, but the 
philosophy behind it was more difficult to fathom than the 
ideals and issues around which those other globe-span- 
ning demonstrations revolved. Like the name of the New 
Age publication that was among the first to publish some 
of the far-out theories behind the Harmonic Convergence, 
the belief system was a “Magical Blend”: the eschatology 
of geomancy. 
The theoretician behind the Harmonic Convergence 
was Jose Arguelles, a forty-eight-year-old artist and histo- 
rian from Boulder, Colorado. The idea hit him in 1983 
when he had a vision while driving along Wilshire Boule- 
vard in Los Angeles. “I had this, like, sudden vision of a 
type of Earth Surrender ritual taking place all over the 
world,” he reported. Arguelles had been studying the con- 
figurations of the Mayan Calendar, and had computed that 
August 16/17 was a moment of cosmic importance. His 
ideas were set down in a book called The Mayan Factor. 
For one thing it was the first time in 23,142 years that 
seven of the nine planets were in grand trine configura- 
tion. According to Arguelles, the Aztec Calendar, with its 
13 cycles of Heaven and nine cycles of Hell, was coming 
to an end on August 16, 1987. Hopi legends, he added, 
claimed that this same date was the time when 144,000 
Sun Dance-enlightened teachers would help awaken the 
rest of humanity. And finally he cited predictions based 
on the Mayan calendrics. 
Numbers and an exact sense of time played an impor- 
tant part in Mayan cosmology. Hunab Ku, the Mayan 
name for god, for instance, can be translated as “he who 
gives measurements,” and Arguelles, as a student (or crea- 
tor) of neo-Mayan science, depended upon dates and 
measurements no less than the civilization he was study- 
ing. The Mayan great cycle runs from 3113 B.c. to 2012 
A.D., a total of 5,125 years, itself only one-fifth of the 
greater cycle of 25,625 years. August 16th marked the in- 
