paths for earth-to-space electrical discharges. The ball lightning, 
the sheets of flame issuing from the ground, and other localized 
luminous phenomena may be generated by large-scale piezoelectric 
effects (i.e., the creation of electricity by stresses in rocks). An al- 
ternate explanation of earthquake lights involves the spontaneous 
ignition of natural gas liberated by the quaking earth. 
Violent volcanoes and tornadoes also display unusual lights. Of 
course, normal lightning and ball lightning are to be expected in 
violent storms, but whence the peculiar shafts of light reported in 
tornado funnels and the strange glowing patches in and above 
storm clouds? The precise role of electricity in tornado action, if 
any, is highly controversial. Superficially at least, the funnel light 
columns may, like neon lights, arise from large-scale glow 
discharges in these naturally formed tubes. 
That the earth-as-a-whole is a gigantic electrical machine cannot 
be doubted. The constant turmoil of the atmosphere, its never- 
ceasing bombardment by the solar wind, the electrically charged 
wind-blown dust and snow, and the intense forces squeezing ter- 
restrial rocks, all conspire to create a wide spectrum of curious 
and poorly understood luminous effects. 
Mountain-Top Glows (tp 1) 
Description: Rays, undulating streamers of light, flashes, and 
steady glows appearing along mountain crests and ridges. The 
color is usually yellowish white, with green and orange being more 
rare. This phenomenon is observed in the Andes, the Alps, the 
Rockies, the Arctic, and probably many other places. 
Background: Despite the widespread occurrence of mountain-top 
glows, science has taken little note of them. Instrumented studies 
are essentially unknown. 
Data Evaluation: Many high quality observations, especially from 
the Andes and Alps. Rating: 1. 
Anomaly Evaluation: Mountain-top glows are probably large-scale 
discharges of terrestrial electricity into the atmosphere — that is, 
greatly magnified St. Elmo’s Fire. The anomalous aspects are: 
(1) The very large scale of the phenomenon; (2) The apparent 
heightening of the displays during earthquakes; (3) The possible 
periodicity of the flashes; (4) The close resemblance to auroras, 
which seems to underscore the reality of low-level auroras (GLA4). 
Rating: 3. 
Possible Explanation: Large-scale discharge of terrestrial 
electricity. 
Similar and Related Phenomena: Low-level auroras (GLA4); 
aurora-related fogs and mists (GLA21); earthquake lights (GLD8). 
The Catalog lists over 20 cases of mountain-top glows. Here are a 
Sew examples: 
X7. June 7, 1954. Madeira. “On 
some 20 minutes, a low rumbling was 
approaching Madeira from SW the 
heard like distant thunder.” 
island was completely covered with low 
—Robson, G.; Marine Observer, 
cloud, stratus and stratocumulus. On ar- 
25:95, 1955. 
riving within 16 miles of the island the 
cloud rapidly lifted and numerous 
brilliant white flashes were observed at 
frequent intervals on various mountain 
peaks. At the time of these occurrences 
the cloud was clear of the island, al- 
Ship approaching Madeira 
X8. General observation. The Andes. 
“Thunderstorms are rare in Chile, and 
this fact may possibly be explained on 
the assumption that the Andes act asa 
gigantic lightning rod, between which 
and the clouds silent discharges take 
place on a vast scale. The visible dis- 
charges occur during the warm season, 
from late spring to autumn, and appear 
to come especially from certain fixed 
points. According to Dr. Knoche they 
are confined almost exclusively to the 
Andes proper, or Cordillera Real, as 
distinguished from the coast cordillera. 
Viewed from a favorable point near 
their origin there is seen to be, at times, 
a constant glow around the summits of 
the mountains, with occasional out- 
bursts, which often simulate the beams 
of a great searchlight, and may be 
directed westward so as to extend out 
over the ocean. The color of the light is 
pale yellow, or rarely reddish. One strik- 
ing feature of these discharges is that 
they are especially magnificent during 
earthquakes. At the time of the great 
earthquake of August, 1906, throughout 
central Chile the whole sky seemed to 
be on fire; never before or since has the 
display been so brilliant.” 
—‘Curious Lightning in the Andes, ” 
Scientific American, 106:464, 1912. 
— ‘Strange Kinds of Lightning,” 
Literary Digest, 111:22, 
October 10, 1931. 
X9. General observation. The Andes. 
“ ‘Andes glow’ or ‘Andes lights’ are 
terms used to describe illumination seen 
at night in the vicinity of certain moun- 
tain peaks. While the majority of reports 
have come from the Andes mountains 
of Bolivia, Chile and Peru, this 
phenomenon has also been reported in 
the European Alps, Mexico and Lapland 
and presumably could occur in many 
mountainous regions under favourable 
conditions. While sometimes thought to 
be lightning, for lack of a more obvious 
explanation, the interesting property of 
these light displays is that they can occur 
under cloudless skies. Sometimes they 
are but one single flash, while at other 
times they may persist intermittently for 
hours. On occasion, a periodicity has 
been noted in the time between flashes. 
At their most spectacular they have been 
described as “ . 
. not only clothing the 
peaks, but producing great beams, which 
can be seen miles out at sea? They seem 
to favour particular mountain peaks 
where often they can be seen during the 
dry season.” 
—Markson, Ralph and Nelson, 
Richard; “Mountain-Peak Potential- 
Gradient Measurements and the Andes 
Glow,” Weather, 25:350, 1970. 
though there was some stratocumulus to 
observes flashes of light 
NW. After the flashes had continued for 
on mountains. 
