Berenholtz printed literature that many people fol- 
lowed for ceremonies at the sacred sites to align the ener- 
gies of the planet and make the transition beneficial. As 
in the Talmud, minutiae of conduct became important: 
. Sleep in spirals or concentric circles with your heads 
to the center and Dream as One. If possible, have a large 
drum in the center of your dream circle to align with the 
heartbeat of the Earth. Let nine people keep the beat at 
any given time . 
. 
. in this way will our consciousness be 
patterned through the dream state to the planetary rhythm 
we are all simultaneously experiencing.” 
Berenholtz himself spent the Harmonic Convergence 
inside the King’s Room of the Great Pyramid. “TI felt a 
convergence in my being of all time and space,” he re- 
lated. “I felt as if an initiation was taking place, a plane- 
tary initiation. I felt like my genetic code was being 
changed.” Berenholtz claims that during the Harmonic 
Convergence a “critical threshold was achieved, an im- 
plantation, a seeding of the new genetic information for 
the entire earth.” 
Not everyone who participated in the Harmonic Con- 
vergence traveled to exotic locations. A few thousand 
went to domestic sites such as Mt. Shasta in California, or 
Central Park in New York, where they engaged in less rig- 
orous activities such as humming, chanting, and dancing. 
Others spontaneously climbed onto hilltops to observe the 
sunrise. In the Topanga and Malibu areas of Los Angeles, 
for instance, it was not uncommon to find knots of people 
—groups up to fifty strong—who happened to choose the 
same summits for their harmonizing. Then there were 
those who did their bit toward saving the planet by sitting 
in meditation wherever they were at noon (Greenwich 
Mean Time) on August 17th. 
All these participants were crucial to the success of 
the mission. The number of people needed to align the 
energies of the planet—144,000—was mentioned both in 
Mayan prophecies and the Book of Revelation. “I didn’t 
feel it was incumbent upon me as an individual to save 
the earth,” explained Berenholtz, “but it was critical that 
this threshold number [144,000] be reached. I never 
feared. It was merely a matter of doing the work to facili- 
tate the fulfillment of the prophecy.” 
No one disputes that more than 144,000 people took 
part, so we can breathe easier knowing that the planet was 
switched onto the right track. And they took part all over 
the globe, from Australian aborigines who travelled to 
Nostradamus 
Nostradamus (Michel de Nostredame), 
born in France in 1503, has been remem- 
bered by occultists as the author of about 
950 enigmatic, four-lined verses (called 
“quatrains”) through which he is supposed 
to have predicted future world events like 
the rise and fall of Napoleon, World Wars 
I, Il, and beyond, the death of Kennedy, air 
travel, submarines, AIDS, and more. 
In the last few years, Nostradamus has 
become more popular than ever. A book 
on Nostradamus by Jean Charles de Font- 
brune, published in France in 1980, 
caused a sensation by predicting that 
World War III would break out in the 1980s 
and that both Paris and Istanbul would be 
annihilated. 
Meanwhile, in the U.S., Cali- 
fornians held their breaths in May of 1988 
when the “New City” (interpreted as either 
San Francisco or Los Angeles) was sup- 
inion 
dinyh ))) Den 
hy 
in Nia, ys 
! 
y 
Mi vor yp = 
E 
SS { C4 of ™ 
st di 
~ BA | 
A woodcut from Nostradamus’ day depicting 
large-scale disaster, from LeVert's The 
Prophecies and Enigmas of Nostradamus. 
20 
posed to be destroyed in an earthquake, a 
notion that originated with a popularly dis- 
tributed videotape of a 1982 television 
special about Nostradamus, The Man 
Who Saw Tomorrow, narrated by Orson 
Welles. 
What such failed prophecies demon- 
Strate is that Nostradamus’ deliberately 
vague quatrains are eminently adaptable 
to interpretation, and twisting the verses 
to fit historical events ex post facto has 
been a favorite occult parlor game since 
Nostradamus was alive. 
For instance, in a 
famous quatrain (Century |, Quatrain 35), 
Nostradamus is thought to have predicted 
the death of his benefactor Henry II, when 
in fact the quatrain has been modified by 
later writers to duplicate history. 
(The 
original refers to “two knells, then one,” 
which overzealous students of prophecy 
have rewritten as “two wounds made one” 
to match Henry’s death by a lance injury to 
the head.) Actually, Nostradamus could 
not have been referring to Henry in this 
quatrain, because he had written another 
verse (VI:70) predicting fame and fortune 
for Henry, and, furthermore, he had dedi- 
cated a letter to Henry (June 27, 1558), 
referring to him as “invincible”! 
The search for historical “matches” 
for 
the quatrains continues with modern inter- 
preters who believe, for instance, that 
Nostradamus used the word “Hister” to 
refer to Hitler, when “Hister” is actually 
Latin for “Danube.” Nostradamus enthusi- 
asts can hardly be blamed, however, since 
very little objective writing exists about his 
work. Perhaps the only such book in the 
English language is The Prophecies and 
Enigmas of Nostradamus by Liberté E. 
LeVert. 
LeVert, an authority on sixteenth- 
century French language and history, at 
last puts the quatrains into context. 
He 
returns to the original sources to avoid the 
modifications that have been inserted by 
later “interpreters,” translates with special 
attention to the formalized tradition of the 
quatrain style of verse, and points out the 
allusions to contemporary life that were 
more likely the intent of Nostradamus’ po- 
etry, purposely couched in double mean- 
ings. LeVert’s conclusion: “[Nostradamus] 
did not take himself seriously as a 
prophet. .. 
. He filled his books not with 
prophecies (which were only occasionally 
present), but with verse about current 
events, past history, generalities, social 
criticism, economics, court scandal, plus a 
fair amount of shudder-verse built on fears 
of war and religious persecution.” 
Aside from LeVert’s book, a refreshing 
viewpoint on Nostradamus is presented in 
three separate articles in the Fall 1982 is- 
sue of the Skeptical Inquirer, available as 
a back issue. 
—T.S. 
The Prophecies and 
Enigmas of Nostradamus 
Edited and translated by 
Liberté E. LeVert 
1979; 257 pp. 
$20 postpaid from: 
Firebell Books 
P.O. Box 804 
Glen Rock, NJ 07452 
Skeptical Inquirer 
Fall 1982 
Nostradamus Issue 
Charles Cazeau, James 
Randi, Piet Hoebens 
$6.25 postpaid from: 
Skeptical Inquirer 
P.O. Box 229 
Buffalo, NY 14215-0229 
716/834-3222 
