David 
Attenborough 
/ 
Man, 
Myth 
& 
Magic 
Myths of cosmic cataclysms are ex- 
tremely widespread among primitives. 
and mankind annihilated except for a 
single couple or a few survivors. These : 
myths—implying, as they do in clearer or 
darker fashion, the re-creation of a new 
universe—express the archaic and univer- 
sal idea of the progressive degradation of 
a cosmos, necessitating its periodical de- 
struction and re-creation. 
The myth of the end of the world was 
THe MYTHOLOGY 
OF THE END OF THE WORLD 
world i: 
is at the center of countless pro- 
phetic movements, of which the best 
known are the Oceanian Cargo Cults. 
___ These movements announce that the 
They tell how the world was destroyed 
—_—|/ world is about to be destroyed and that 
- 
_ the tribe will regain a kind of paradise: 
the dead will rise again and there will be 
— 
neither death nor sickness. But this new 
creation—or recovery of paradise—will 
_be preceded by a series of cosmic catas- 
trophes. The earth will shake, there will 
be rains of fire, the mountains will 
© 
crumble and fill the valleys, the whites 
and the natives who have not joined the 
Congo when the country becam 
pendent in 1960. In some villages 
_ 
habitants tore the roofs off their hut 
give passage to the gold that their 
< 
_ tors were to rain down. Elsewhere 
ev 
thing was allowed to go to rack 
except the roads to the cemetery, 
_which the ancestors would make 
way to the village. Even the orgi: 
__ 
cesses had a meaning, for according t 
__ the myth, from the dawn of the 
all women would be held in cor 
all men. 
—Mircea 
_ 
From Man, Myth, and Magic (edited 
ic 
ard Cavendish; 1970; aoe York: — 
also popular in ancient India, Mesopota- 
fect on the rapid expansion of Miller’s following. A 
crowd of 3,500 people dedicated a Millerite tabernacle in 
Boston in 1843. Then the Millerites waited for March 21 
and the End of the World, but the day came and went like 
any other. Miller claimed that he had made a slight mis- 
calculation: he had foolishly used the Jewish calendar. 
The real date was to be March 21, 1844. 
There was a moment of doubt, but the movement ral- 
lied toward this new date with destiny. The fervor reached 
a renewed crescendo as March 21, 1844, approached. 
Proselytizing activity increased as believers made a final 
effort to indoctrinate others into the Millerite Church. 
When this second date passed uneventfully, the move- 
ment—amazingly—remained largely unaffected, and by 
the middle of July Miller was again traveling about the 
East Coast lecturing to packed halls. 
A third date was proposed—October 22, 1844—and 
Miller’s expanded following was adamant: The Messiah 
would come before the passing of another winter. 
Throughout New England, farmers either failed to plow 
their fields or left their crops to rot unharvested. Once 
again the appointed hour approached and again activity in 
the Millerite organization increased to a fever pitch. 
Camp meetings were packed with ordinary folk desperate 
to renounce their sins. The Millerite Church exhorted fol- 
lowers to leave their everyday activities. “Let your ac- 
tions preach in the clearest tones,” wrote the editors of 
The Midnight Cry, “The Lord is coming, the time is short. 
Prepare to meet thy God.” 
October 22 came and went, and with it, a large part of 
12 
cult will be annihilated. Thus, in 1923 _ 
Cavendish), 
the Millerite movement. Surprisingly, it had taken three 
separate disconfirmations over a period of a year and a 
half before any appreciable doubt arose among Miller’s 
followers. Millennial movements die hard, if they truly 
die at all. The direct descendants of Miller’s church are 
still with us today: the Jehovah’s Witnesses and the Sev- 
enth-Day Adventists. ! 
The Millerite movement arose during the early stages 
of industrialization on the Eastern seaboard. Perhaps its 
popularity relates in some way to the anxiety and appre- 
hension people felt about the changes they saw taking 
place around them. Certainly things could have been 
worse. Conditions were not as bad, say, as they were for 
the Jews in the second century B.c. when their religious 
infrastructure was under severe and constant attack. Their 
response was the Book of Daniel (one of the earliest ex- 
amples of apocalyptic literature) and guerrilla warfare. 
In the case of the Millerites, there was mass hysteria 
of a mild sort: some people sold their worldly goods and 
a few farmers lost their crops to neglect. No massive dis- 
location was involved. The extent to which millennialists 
actually change their lives in accordance with their belief 
in the imminent end seems to be directly linked to the 
general level of desperation. Miller, like Lindsey in mod- 
ern times, claimed only to be a “seer,” a prophet. There 
have also been occasions in history when a man has arisen 
who claimed to be the messiah himself. 
' The Jehovah’s Witnesses continue to forecast the exact date of 
the End, and have struck out thrice more, in 1874, 1914, and 
1975, with no appreciable loss of church membership. 
