The appearance of the spirit 
“Katie King” at a Philadelphia 
seance in 1874, as depicted 
in a contemporary engraving. 
Originally “manifested” 
through a medium named 
Florence Cook, Katie has 
materialized for many psy- 
chics, even as recently as 
1974. These manifestations 
contradict Katie’s promise, 
made through Cook, that she 
would never appear again 
after 1874. 
North America have caused unnecessary anxiety among 
the populations of the endangered cities (none of these 
have occurred as predicted; see page 17). Ramtha, the an- 
cient Lemurian channeled by J.Z. Knight, has raised oc- 
cult eyebrows with his denial of the wrongness of actions 
like murder (“I do not abhor the act. I have reasoned it. I 
have understood it. I am beyond it.”). Shirley MacLaine’s 
favorite channel, Kevin Ryerson, produces messages in- 
structing AIDS patients to turn to potentially harmful 
cures like homeopathic compounds derived from the 
syphilis bacterium, radiation from naturally occurring ore 
compounds, and moldy bread instead of penicillin. 
But there is a more sinister side to channeling. Any 
number of modern-day murderers have attributed their ac- 
tions to channeled entities. David Berkowitz, the “Son of 
Sam” serial killer who murdered six people and wounded 
seven others, claimed to have acted under orders from a 
6,000-year-old entity that spoke through his neighbor’s 
dog. Britain’s “Yorkshire Ripper,” a man named Peter 
Sutcliffe who in 1975 murdered thirteen prostitutes, had 
his first channeling experience in 1967: “I experienced a 
fantastic feeling . 
. 
. I felt for some reason I had been cho- 
sen to hear the words of God.” In court, he testified that 
he didn’t like having to commit murder, but that “it was 
the voice of God and God must be right.” Mark David 
Chapman, the murderer of John Lennon, believes that it 
was demons that made him shoot Lennon, and in prison 
he heard the voice of God speak to him in “a very small 
male voice,” instructing him to plead guilty. 
In a powerful piece entitled “Strip Mining the Psy- 
che,” which appeared in the October 1986 issue of Ar- 
tifex,° editor Dennis Stillings compares the New Age rush 
to “develop” the psyche to a rush of land speculators to 
bulldoze virgin wilderness. He suggests that techniques 
like channeling give the unprepared and uninitiated access 
to the unconscious, and, without visionary leaders or cul- 
tural values to buffer the effects, the result is often “disso- 
ciation and possession by idées fixés about UFOs and 
ETs, the Hollow Earth, and conversations with exotic 
beings from remote times and places.” Stillings points 
out that “virtually every psychotic killer is a ‘channel’ 
who has heard voices telling him of how evil women are 
or that the President must be killed or that his wife and 
children are possessed by evil spirits and should die so 
their souls might be saved. How individuals respond to 
the dissociative states involved in channeling can vary 
greatly and, in some instances, might well lead to destruc- 
tive consequences.” 
Finally, Stillings warns that the hidden territories of 
the psyche are just as likely to harbor “vipers, carnivores, 
freaks, and monsters” as they are to harbor beings of 
sweetness and light. 
If, like many channeling enthusiasts, we were to take 
all of the channeled information at face value, we’d have 
to believe in many fanciful and contradictory things. 
We’d have to believe in channeled messages from Bigfoot 
and the Crystal Skull, in cities on Mars and Venus, in sur- 
vivors of Atlantis that live in tunnels under Mount Shasta, 
and in a computer-like intelligence named “Hoova” that 
controls the world and communicates through Uri Geller. 
We would have to believe in many contradictory cos- 
mologies, as editor Jay Kinney points out in the Fall 1987 
issue Of Gnosis: A Journal of the Western Inner Tradi- 
tions:’ “The [channeled] Books of Oahspe, of Urantia, 
and of Alice Bailey, to name just three examples, go into 
thousands of pages of intricate detail about intergalactic 
hierarchies and humanity’s place in the universe; unfortu- 
Artifex and Archaeus are the newsletter and journal, respec- 
tively, of the Archaeus Project, an organization devoted to study- 
ing holistic health, Jungian psychology, parapsychology, anoma- 
lous phenomena, mythology, the psychological effects of 
electromagnetic radiation, and various other fringe topics. The 
October 1986 issue of Artifex, quoted above, is available for 
$2.00 from Archaeus Project, 2402 University Avenue, St. Paul, 
MN 55114. 
Available for $5 postpaid from Gnosis, P.O. Box 14217, San 
Francisco, CA 94114. See review, p. 30. 
63 
