Nw 
Where do these rumors come from and how are they per- 
petuated? As in most folklore, there must be just enough 
basis in fact to make the stories believable despite persis- 
tent embellishments. And believers of a rumor must suf- 
fer from total suspension of disbelief. This is a kind way 
of saying that they must be gullible as hell. 
Take the case of the “Philadelphia Experiment,” a ru- 
mor so prevalent that it was even the subject of a major 
motion picture. It’s been the theme of several books, too, 
and is based upon three facts: 1) A section of the Phila- 
delphia Naval yard was sealed off during World War II. 
2) Strange scholarly civilians carrying briefcases were 
seen entering and leaving the restricted area (one of 
whom was clearly recognized as Albert Einstein). 3) A 
weird newspaper article that was published during the war 
years described how sailors had been terrified aboard their 
ship by eerie electrical phenomena. These three facts re- 
sulted in a rumor that the Navy was experimenting with a 
system to cause ships—and their crews—to dematerialize. 
One lone man set this rumor in motion when he 
mailed a cryptic document to a popular UFO researcher. 
His name was Carl Allen, a.k.a. “Carlos Allende.” When- 
ever the cultists showed signs of losing interest in the ru- 
mor, he would stir things up again with letters to cult lead- 
ers revealing new evidence of the government conspiracy 
to hide the truth from the public. 
Mr. Allen had been a seaman during the war and he 
had spent some time in Philadelphia. Like all the sailors 
there, he was fascinated by the Off Limits area of the Na- 
val Yard and the comings and goings of the oddball pro- 
fessorial types. And he wondered about all the wires and 
weird equipment seen aboard some of the ships docked 
there. A rumor was circulated among the seamen that 
these ships were being degaussed (i.e., demagnetized so 
they wouldn’t attract magnetic mines). After the war, the 
truth came out. That closed area was a part of the Man- 
hattan Project, part of the effort to build the atomic bomb. 
Cloud chambers and cyclotrons were on board the ships 
that the scientists, including Einstein, visited. The de- 
gaussing story was actually put into circulation by the se- 
curity people guarding the Manhattan Project. 
The third element of the rumor—the newspaper ar- 
ticle—was hard to pin down. Researchers spent years 
by John A. Keel 
Illustrated by Kim Deitch 
wading through Philadelphia newspapers looking for the 
item Allen swore he had read. Only recently has a lead- 
ing Fortean researcher, Michael T. Shoemaker, stumbled 
across the story in The Philadelphia Inquirer of August 1, 
1904. That’s right, 1904 ! 
According to the article, the British steamer Mohican 
ran into a mysterious “magnetic” cloud that July. Here is 
the Captain’s description (his name was Urquhart) which 
was “vouched for by every man of the crew”: 
It was shortly after the sun had gone and we were in 
latitude 37 degrees 16 minutes and longitude 72 degrees 
48 minutes. The sea was almost as level as a parlor car- 
pet and scarcely a breeze ruffled the water. It was 
Slowly growing dark when the lookout saw a strange 
gray cloud in the southeast. At first it appeared as a 
speck on the horizon, but it rapidly came nearer and was 
soon as large as a balloon. 
.. 
. Suddenly the cloud en- 
veloped the ship, and the most remarkable phenomena 
took place. The Mohican suddenly blazed forth like a 
ship on fire, and from stem to stern and topmast to keel 
everything was tinged with the strange glow. The sea- 
men were in terror when they found themselves looking 
as if they had been immersed in hell fire. Their hair 
stood straight on end, not from fright so much as from 
the magnetic power of the cloud. 
They rushed about the deck in consternation, and the 
more they rushed about the more excited they became. 
I tried to calm them, but the situation was beyond me. I 
looked at the needle (compass) and it was flying around 
like an electric fan. I ordered several of the crew to 
move some iron chains that were lying on the deck, 
thinking that it would distract their attention. But what 
a surprise to find that the sailors could not budge the 
chains, although they did not weigh more than seventy- 
five pounds each. Everything was magnetized, and 
chains, bolts, spikes and bars were as tight on the deck 
as if they had been riveted there. 
The cloud was so dense that it was impossible for the 
vessel to proceed. I could not see beyond the decks, and 
it appeared as if the whole world was a mass of glowing 
fire 
.. 
. After we had been in the cloud for about ten 
minutes, we noticed that it became difficult to move our 
arms and legs, in fact, all the joints of the body seemed 
to stiffen . 
. 
. I tried to talk, but the words refused to 
leave my lips. The density of the cloud was so great 
that it would not carry sound. 
Co 
165 
