208 
Althea took over, and she fired me. I called 
up family and friends so they wouldn't learn 
this news from the media. Ken Kesey said, 
“Why don’t you come to Egypt with us? The 
Grateful Dead are gonna play the Pyramids.” 
I lay down in a long-dead king’s sarcopha- 
gus in the middle of the Great Pyramid and 
started chanting. I wanted a sign so badly. 
But nothing happened. The only sign I got 
was that the tomb smelled from somebody’s 
urine. Maybe the guides were being tested 
for illegal drugs. 
Recently, though, it finally happened. I got 
my sign. I was watching a movie on cable TV, 
Falling in Love with Meryl Streep and Robert 
DeNiro. I wasn’t sure whether I wanted to con- 
tinue watching it or not. Outside there was a 
fantasic thunderstorm. Suddenly, a bolt of 
lightning struck, and my TV set went off. 
Okay. I believe, I believe. 
Why, just the other day I’m sure I heard a 
butterfly complaining about how it was really 
a caterpillar trapped in a butterfly’s body .. 
. @ 
— eae 
ee 
The Realist ang Best of the Realist 
Miracles do happen. The Realist is back. Profes- 
sional scamp Paul Krassner has been talking about re- 
viving the granddaddy of all underground magazines for 
over a decade, but it took several years of Reagan and 
a loan from a sympathetic foundation to finally make it 
happen. 
During the late ’50s and early ’60s, The Realist 
was almost alone in offering wicked, anti-establishment 
satire and commentary to a literate audience. Its con- 
triputors included Lenny Bruce, Norman Mailer, Robert 
Anton Wilson, and cartoonist Dick Guindon, among oth- 
ers, and its influence far outweighed its circulation. Dur- 
ing its most notorious period in the late 60s and early 
‘70s, it indulged in political put-ons (such as the infa- 
mous “Parts Left Out of the Kennedy Book”) and un- 
leashed Mae Brussel’s minutely researched conspiracy 
theories on an unsuspecting public. 
The cream of the magazine’s run from 1958 to 
1974 is attractively anthologized in Best of the Realist 
from Running Press. Chock full of cartoons, interviews, 
fibs, and jabs to both the left and the right, the anthol- 
ogy is a bargain at $9.95. 
The Realist itself is back in the flesh as an 8-page 
newsletter. Since Krassner has been most active as a 
standup comic in recent years, the new incarnation has 
a quicker off-the-cuff pace than the old. If you liked The 
Realist before, you'll be pleased to meet it anew. If you 
only knew it as a rumor in the past, now’s a good time 
to see what the talk was all about. 
—Jay Kinney 
The Realist 
Paul Krassner, Editor 
$23/(12 issues) from: 
The Realist 
P.O. Box 1230 
Venice, CA 90294 
—B. Kliban 
—Best of The Realist 
e 
And be sure to tell ‘em Groucho sent you... 
Groucho Marx said in a recent interview: “I think 
the only hope this country has is Nixon’s assassina- 
tion.” 
“Uh, sorry, Mr. Marx, you’re under arrest for 
threatening the life of the President. | can’t tell you how 
much | enjoyed A Night At the Opera. Here, now if you’ll 
just slip into these plastic handcuffs... .” 
| wrote to the local office of the United States De- 
partment of Justice, inquiring about the status of the 
case against Groucho, particularly in view of the indict- 
ment of Black Panther David Hilliard for using similar 
rhetoric. 
Here’s the reply | received: 
Dear Mr. Krassner: 
Responding to your inquiry, the United States Su- 
preme Court has held that Title 18 U.S.C., Section 871 
prohibits only “true” threats. It is one thing to say “I (or 
we) will kill Richard Nixon” when you are the leader of 
an organization which advocates killing people and 
overthrowing the government; it is quite another to utter 
the words which are attributed to Mr. Marx, an alleged 
comedian. It was the opinion of both myself and the 
United States Attorney in Los Angeles (where Marx’s 
words were alleged to have been uttered) that the latter 
utterance did not constitute a “true” threat. 
Very truly yours, 
James L. Browning, Jr. 
United States Attorney 
—Best of The Realist 
° 
Trivial Censorship: 
John Nason, vice president of public relations for 
Selchow & Righter, manufacturer of Trivial Pursuit, ad- 
mits he was embarrassed by a question included only 
in the early editions of the game, namely: 
“How many months pregnant was Nancy Reagan 
when she walked down the matrimonial aisle with 
Ronald?” 
The answer was two months, although Nancy may 
now wish that she had gotten an abortion, so that 
daughter Patti’s novel would never have been pub- 
lished. 
—The Realist 
Best of the Realist 
Paul Krassner, Editor 
1984; 256 pp. 
$9.95 
($11.20 postpaid) from: 
Running Press 
125 South 22nd Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19103 
215/567-5080 
