Eccentric Lives and Peculiar Notions 
When | picked up this book, | didn’t think it would move 
me to admiration for the people whose Stories it tells, or that | 
might be inspired by them. And, though I’m not ready to run 
off on a flat-earth crusade, or to begin deciphering the crypto- 
grams woven into every line of Shakespeare’s plays, or to 
single-handedly build a castle out of hand-carved coral rock, | 
did find something universally human in the struggle of those 
who think independently, if somewhat erratically, and who 
stubbornly persist in the face of overwhelming derision. John 
Michell has performed a wonderful job of eccentric scholarship 
in compiling the life stories of these colorful characters and 
the histories of the movements that some of them founded. 
Did you know, for instance, that there is a small but vo- 
cal movement of “trepanners’’ who believe you can achieve a 
permanent psychedelic state by drilling a hole in your head? 
Me either. A delightful read. 
—T.S. 
e 
In the latter part of the last century a respectable-looking 
gentleman could be seen walking about the cities of Britain, 
gazing intently at young women. He always had one hand in 
his pocket, and every time he passed a girl in the street the 
hand would make a slight twitch. There was a perfectly inno- 
cent explanation for this: the pocketed hand belonged to Sir 
Francis Galton, the great man of science, and the purpose of 
his urban rambles was to gather material for a Beauty Map of 
Great Britain. Also in his pocket was a piece of paper divided 
into three sections. Each woman he saw was categorized as 
either beautiful, middling or ugly, and the judgment was re- 
corded on the appropriate part of the paper by pricking it with 
a needie mounted on a thimble. No detailed results of these 
American Eccentrics 
If it’s sheer volume of eccentricity you're after, you won't 
do any better than American Eccentrics. Here, presented in 
one- to two-page thumbnail biographies, are 140 colorful char- 
acters from the 1500s to the present, including flagpole sit- 
ters, hermits, religious fanatics, imposters, and many impos- 
sible to categorize. Some are famous—Johnny Appleseed, 
Calamity Jane, “Diamond” Jim Brady, Typhoid Mary—but for 
the most part, these stories of human unorthodoxy, individual- 
ism, and folly are little known. 
—T.S. 
Eccentric Lives and 
Peculiar Notions 
John Michell 
1984, 1987; 240 pp. 
$7.95 
ee — 
($9.45 postpaid) from: 
Dr. William Price, the revolutionary 
Lyle Stuart 
Welsh Druid, in his ritual outfit of 
120 Enterprise Ave. 
Seacaucus, NJ 07094 
201/866-0490 
scarlet merino wool with green silk 
letters in the bardic alphabet he 
discovered. 
researches were ever published, but Galton’s general conclu- 
sion was that the prettiest girls are found in London and the 
worst-looking in Aberdeen. 
e 
The most sensational of the projects which [Geoffrey] 
Pyke submitted to Mountbatten was code-named Habakkuk. 
Pyke in America had been investigating certain properties of 
ice and had developed a material, ‘pykrete’, made from a mix- 
ture of ice and wood pulp, which was far stronger than pure 
ice, more stable and less inclined to melt. A ship made of 
pykrete would be unsinkable; a torpedo would make only a 
slight dent in its side, quickly repaired. Pipes circulating cold 
air within the hull would keep it permanently frozen, and Pyke 
had worked out how the ship was to be powered and steered 
and other details. 
e 
For the trifling sum of $750 [John R.] Brinkley would give 
a man the transplanted glands or testicles of a billy goat 
|
($1,500 for a very young goat). The patient was then sup- 
posed to enjoy a complete sexual renaissance. Goat Gland 
Brinkley, as he came to be called, operating out of the Brin- 
kley Gland Clinic in Milford, Kansas, even allowed patients to 
pick out the billies of their choice from a backyard pen, thus 
assuring themselves that they were getting active goats. 
Evidently Brinkley qualified for performing this revolution- 
ary scientific advance thanks to his slaughterhouse work for 
Swift & Co., the meat-packing firm, and a two-month stint in 
|
the army (four weeks of which was spent under psychiatric 
y
observation). 
e 
[Flagpole sitter Shipwreck Kelly’s] props included an eight- 
inch disk that fitted on the top of the pole, to provide him with 
|
a platform: He often fashioned a makeshift chair to sit on. 
| 
He was able to sleep during his performances by locking his 
|
thumbs in bowling-ball-style holes in the flagpole shaft. If he 
|
swayed while dozing, the twinge of pain in his thumbs caused 
him to right himself without waking up. He trained himself to 
catnap five minutes every hour and found he could last almost 
indefinitely in that fashion. Some who came to marvel at Ship- 
wreck seemed most intrigued about how he disposed of waste 
matter; after the performance, they studied the special hose 
run up beside the flagpole. 
American Eccentrics 
140 of the Greatest Human 
Shipwreck Kelly 
ignored superstition 
on Friday, October 
13, 1939, by stand- 
ing on his head 
eating donuts on a 
plank extended 
from a Manhattan 
skyscraper. 
Interest Stories Ever Told 
Carl Sifakis 
1984; 317 pp. 
$8.95 
postpaid from: 
Facts on File 
Attn: Order Dept. 
460 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10016 
212/683-2244 
