BEWARE THE 
J.R. Dobbs (usually referred to as "BOB" by cult 
members) founded the group following a speckled 
career as a bit-actor in C-movies and an extended 
stint as an aluminum siding salesman. Dobbs's suc- 
cess as a salesman enabled him to build up a sizeable 
nest-egg and put him on sure footing for convincing 
others of his sincerity. When Dobbs began to hear 
voices in the mid-1950s—voices he identified alter- 
nately as aliens (X-ists) and as a so-called Space God 
(Jehovah-1)—he wasted little time in developing a 
small but devoted following. 
According to Stang, early SubGenius emphasis 
was on self-development (hence the group's name) 
and on Dobbs's eccentric political philosophy, which 
shared many elements with the far right ideology of 
Robert Welch's John Birch Society. Things might 
have stayed that way—just another small fringe 
group in a western state—except for a few unexpec- 
Jay 
Kinney 
Cult accoutrements: meditation pyramids 
and over-the-counter drugs. 
ted twists in the SubGenius path. The first twist was 
Dobbs's serious extended love affair with LSD in the 
late 1960s and early 1970s. During this period the 
Foundation evolved into a Church and Dobbs's clus- 
ter of SubGenii went through an unsavory spell 
where experimentation with sex and drugs was de 
rigueur. The second twist was the arrival of Dr. Philo 
Drummond in the late 1970s. 
Drummond, who had prior experience in the pub- 
lic relations field and was a graduate of est, apparent- 
ly saw much potential in the tiny Church and rapidly 
worked his way to a position of power second only to 
Dobbs himself. In league with Stang, who was now 
number three in the cult, Drummond introduced the 
use of "BOB"'s face on Church flyers and instituted a 
policy of heavy new-member recruitment. Public 
meetings in Dallas were advertised and began to draw 
sizeable crowds. Branches of the Church (called 
"clenches"” in SubGenius parlance) spread to Little 
Rock and Austin. And perhaps most innovative of all, 
Drummond and Stang pushed for a policy of clench 
autonomy, both theologically and organizationally. 
As SubGenii proliferated, so did the gods and de- 
mons in the SubGenius pantheon. What had started as 
a monotheistic neo-UFO cult in the 1950s had trans- 
mogrified into a polytheistic grab-bag in the 1980s. 
One indication of the new regime instituted by 
Drummond was the extensive use of false Church 
... LIKE DOGS BEGGING 
FOR A TREAT 
names in place of members' real names. Though 
Stang and Drummond's names were authentic 
enough, most post-1979 SubGenii took assumed 
names as part of their initiation into the cult. Janor 
Hypercleats and Sterno Keckhaver (both from Little 
Rock), Tentatively A. Convenience (of Baltimore), 
Pastor Buck Naked (of Dallas), Puzzling Evidence 
(of Oakland), Lies (of San Francisco), St. Byron 
Werner (of L.A.)—all sported transparently ridic- 
ulous monickers. This, in combination with the pol- 
icy of making every cult member a de facto minister, 
brought a bizarre air of unreality to Church proceed- 
ings, with Popes, Saints, and Reverends all compet- 
ing for positions of power over each other. It also 
brought the Church to the attention of the FBI and 
IRS, who were concerned that a new outbreak of 
mail-order ordinations, all claiming tax-exempt 
status, might lend further momentum to the growing 
ranks of the tax revolt. 
THE SUBGENIUS DEVIVAL IS STILL GOING 
strong as the clock at the Stone hits midnight. Pastor 
Buck Naked has come and gone with his auto-harp 
songs about electrical devices embedded in his brain. 
Rev. Ivan Stang has stirred up the crowd with a ritual 
demonstration of Time Control consisting of sledge- 
hammering to smithereens the wristwatch of a trust- 
ing volunteer from the audience. Janor and Sterno 
have "Launched the Head." The Band That Dare Not 
Speak Its Name, a local aggregation of anti-musi- 
cians, has gotten the faithful to their feet with sting- 
ing anti-songs about "BOB." And now the evening is 
reaching a frenzied climax with the arrival of Rev. 
Meyer, "the Pope of All New York." 
As a dry-ice mist rises from the stage, Meyer, ac- 
HOW TO FOOL THE AUTHORITIES 
