Hailstones formed of 
crystalline masses. 
Irregular hail, England, 1862. Many 
examples of each type fell. 
Spherical hail with raised rims, 
looking like the planet Saturn, that 
fell in Guildford, England, on 
June 25, 1888. 
ONE INCH 
Irregular hailstones that fell in 
England in 1893. 
Hailstones with Anomalous Shapes 
(GWP4) 
Key to Phenomena 
Ice Falls 
or Hydrometeors 
Stone Falls 
Sulphur/Pollen Falls 
Falls of Miscellaneous 
Inorganic Substances 
The Fall of Manna 
Unusual Falls of Hay 
and Leaves 
Gelatinous Meteors or 
Pwdre Ser 
Prodigious Falls of 
Web-Like Material 
Falls of Miscellaneous 
Organic Substances 
Fish Falls 
Falls of Frogs 
and Toads 
Insect Falls 
Bird Falls 
Falls of Miscellaneous 
Living Animals 
Falls (GWF) 
Anomalous rain, snow, and hail are treated in another chapter of 
the Catalog. Beyond these “nearly normal” forms of precipitation 
are those falling materials that do not belong aloft at all: large 
chunks of ice, living animals, nonmeteoric stones, and many other 
nominally terrestrial materials. Charles Fort, who is regarded as 
the father of anomaly research [see p. 81], made much of falling 
materials, even though most of them can be explained rationally 
by appealing to recognized meteorological mechanisms, i.e., whirl- 
winds, waterspouts, tornados, etc. Fort did have a point, however: 
any small minority of falling material not succumbing to conven- 
tional explanations would require truly revolutionary explanations. 
Such is the claim of residual anomalies in all areas of science — 
and this claim is perfectly valid in this chapter. 
The overwhelming majority of falls consist of terrestrially derived 
material and earth-dwelling animals. So-called sulphur falls almost 
invariably turn out to be wind-blown pollen. The sensationalized 
falls of fish and frogs, which are well-verified in the literature, are 
easily explained in terms of whirlwinds, waterspouts, and torna- 
dos. Immense falls of hay, leaves, and insects, though startling, are 
scarcely anomalous. Nature provides ready sources of such mate- 
rial as well as natural vacuum cleaners to snatch up light-weight 
objects and deposit them somewhere else. Even so, these types of 
falls present some enigmatic aspects: (1) The descent of some 
species of animals is so overwhelming in quantity that scientists 
are hard-pressed to explain where they could have all been collected; 
(2) The “purity” of the falls, that is, the absence of coexisting 
species and debris from the falling animals’ habitat. 
Falls of cobwebs and the so-called gelatinous meteors (or “pwdre 
ser,” which in Welsh means “rot of the stars’’) introduce a more 
unsettling factor. While admitting the reality of ballooning spiders, 
it seems that some of the great web falls involve a substance that 
may not be insect-produced — it is too strong and quickly evapo- 
rates away. It also falls in strands hundreds, even thousands of 
feet long. Some gelatinous meteors, too, seem to evaporate away 
strangely. If these properties can be verified, we have something 
more anomalous than a simple fish fall. 
Another pair of phenomena with related characteristics will 
conclude this introduction: the large hydrometeors and the much- 
maligned thunderstone. Both phenomena typically occur during 
thunderstorms. A peal of thunder rings out and something strikes 
the ground nearby. If one finds a large chunk of ice, a passing 
plane can always be blamed; but if one find a stone or even a 
meteor, emotional disbelief takes charge. Yet, no physical reason 
bars the fall of meteorites during thunderstorms, nor can one deny 
the possibility of a strong whirlwind picking up a stone of several 
pounds weight and releasing it during a thunderstorm. After all, 
some large hailstones reach several pounds, too. The point here is 
that the possibility of stonefalls should not be dismissed out-of- 
hand because of any innate distrust of legends carried over from 
ancient times. 
The data presented in this section show rather conclusively that 
odd things do fall from the sky on occasion. Regardless of the 
sensationalism usually attached to these falls, most of them are 
not really very anomalous. A rain of frogs may be rare and cer- 
tainly Fortean, but meteorology is well equipped to deal with 
most aspects of this phenomenon. 
- 
ain 
cetiean
