This process is widely known and effectively 
manipulated by those wishing to influence large 
numbers of people. Hitler was terrifyingly suc- 
cessful in convincing an entire people (at least a 
critical mass) of the reasonableness of his “final 
solution.” Teenage culture in our own country 
offers nonstop demonstration of new fads that 
emerge, spread through the group to become a 
critical mass, and disappear, all in a matter of 
weeks. Madison Avenue advertisers pay high 
salaries to those psychologists who become adept 
at manipulating the mass psyche to form critical 
mass, as do the Defense Department and politi- 
cians running for office. The means by which 
critical mass is achieved, however, is not in any 
way mysterious. It is a matter of telecommunica- 
tions, not telepathy. 
There are major contradictions in the present 
idealization of critical mass — seen not only in 
the Hundredth Monkey story, but in the ideologies 
of such organizations as est, Bhagwan Rajneesh, 
and the “Aquarian conspirators.” In promoting 
the idea that, although our ideas are shared by 
only an enlightened few (for the time being), if 
we really believe them, in some magical way 
what we hold to be true becomes true for every- 
one, proponents of the critical mass ideal ignore 
the principles of both humanism and democratic 
open society. The basis for openness in our kind 
of society is the belief that, for good or ill, each 
of us holds his or her own beliefs as a responsible 
participant in a pluralistic culture. Are we really 
willing to give up on this ideal and promote in- 
stead a monolithic ideology in which what is 
true for a “critical mass” of people becomes true 
for everyone? The idea gives me the willies. 
PSEUDOSCIENCE, SCIENCE, AND 
AMBIVALENCE 
How could such a profoundly nonhumanistic 
idea become so popular among people who con- 
sider themselves the harbingers of a “New Age”? 
I think the answer lies, at least in part, in the 
renewed infatuation with science and its shadow, 
pseudoscience. In the past ten years or so, we 
have seen the image of nuclear physicists shift 
from Dr. Strangelove-like creators of the most 
terrifying death devices in history to their pre- 
sent status as darlings of the so-called “new 
paradigm” consciousness. When we saw the 
physicists as on “their side,” we rejected every- 
thing they did. Now that they are on “our side,” 
we quote them at breakfast. Books like Fritjof 
Capra’s The Tao of Physics have the New Age 
community convinced that physics is just some 
kind of Taoism with numbers. 
This new infatuation with science is a shallow 
one, easily swayed by tricks of the pseudoscience 
trade such as theorizing wildly in scientific-sound- 
ing language, sprinkling speculative discussion 
with isolated fragments of real data regardless of 
relevance, confusing analogy with homology, 
breaking conventional rules of evidence at will, 
and extrapolating from one level of reality into 
others wherein different principles operate. 
I do not wish to imply that pseudoscience neces- 
sarily stems from a conscious effort to deceive. 
More often than not, crossing the line from science 
to pseudoscience comes from ignorance and inex- 
perience, and the popularity of pseudoscience is 
with an audience equally ignorant and inexper- 
ienced. Because this audience is not equipped to 
evaluate claims of scientific validity, they instead 
accept them on faith. 
One standard trick of the pseudoscience trade, 
for example, is to emphasize whatever affiliations 
to established science the writers have or had. It is 
to great advantage if the writer can be referred to 
as a scientist associated with a prestigious univer- 
sity with a wide reputation for scientific excellence. 
It matters not to the purveyors of pseudoscience 
whether or not the “scientists” referred to have 
been in a lab for years, or if, when they were, it 
was in a field even remotely relevant to the 
subject at hand. 
An August 1981 Brain/Mind Bulletin account of 
the Hundredth Monkey story refers to Lyall Wat- 
son as a biologist: the monkey story follows. The 
bibliography of Watson’s book contains not one 
reference to any scientific research, biological or 
otherwise, that he has published, yet his other 
books, on the occult, are listed. It is not difficult 
183 
