pt 
COPILOTS 
_ That’s the strategy behind the Airplane 
Game and similar pyramid schemes, 
which require that ever-increasing 
numbers of people must bring in 
ever-increasing amounts of 
money, so that the handful 
of early players at the top 
of the pyramid profit at 
the expense of the 
large numbers at 
the bottom, 
who inevi- 
tably 
lose. 
a 
() 
JLFLIGHT ATTENDANTS 
In order for a player who pays 
THESE ARE 
in $1,500 to “pilot out,” 
THE DAMNING 
MATHEMATICS: 
more people must join the 
game, bringing in a total of 
$96,000. 
were no more pilots or copilots, only facilitators and cofa- 
cilitators. The crew were now staff; the passengers, students. 
“We’re talking about prosperity here,” Blue Pearl pro- 
nounced every syllable. “Abundance. This is an Abundance 
Workshop. If you take a violin workshop, you learn how to 
play the violin; if you take an Abundance Workshop, you 
generate abundance.” His words had an insidious effect, 
simultaneously calming and intimidating. 
To further affirm the game’s enlightened focus, a volun- 
teer began reading aloud from a sheet titled: “The Infinity 
Process: Abundance and Support Workshop Guidelines.” 
The eleven rules it contained were based on a book called 
Finite and Infinite Games, by James P. Carse,'! which has 
become a virtual Bible for the game players. (The book had 
long ago sold out at the dozen stores I checked. Carse even 
canceled a lecture tour to the San Francisco Bay Area, 
concerned that he might be viewed as a promoter of the 
pyramid scheme itself.) 
“The purpose of the infinity process is growth, expan- 
sion, and looking at what comes up in you in the process,” the 
'James P. Carse. 1986. Finite and Infinite Games: A Vision of 
Life as Play and Possibility. $4.45 from Ballantine Mail Sales, 
Dept. TA, 201 E. 50th St., New York, NY 10022. 
For those 64 
to win, another 
And for any of those 
512 to pilot out, 
4,096 
more people must enter, 
spending yet another 
$6,144,000! 
512 
people must enter, bringing 
in an additional 
$768,000. 
guidelines began. “The workshop is not just about making 
money.” There followed a series of by-laws, read in the 
gently emphatic style of a self-hypnosis tape. They empha- 
sized the need for “integrity” and the requirement to “receive 
at least one friend into the process before becoming a 
facilitator.” The final rule was where the infinity process 
diverged dramatically from lesser pyramids, ensuring that 
everyone in the room understood that this was a gamble: 
“This workshop does not guarantee that you will receive 
money for your participation,” intoned the facilitator, “and 
there are no refunds.” 
“Why do people freak out when they hear about these 
things?” demanded a woman called Carousel. “People think 
nothing of spending thousands of dollars on a courtship that 
doesn’t lead anywhere, or ona fancy car that some advertise- 
ment has convinced them they wanted. Why are they so 
intent on trying to stop us from doing what we want with our 
money?” 
everal days later I attended a second meeting at the 
North Berkeley home of a woman called Flame. 
Flame had already reached the top of the pyramid and 
collected once, but she recycled the money back into 
the pyramid in the form of “‘sponsorships”—putting 
up all or 
37 
