Randy 
Green/Onyx 
When I ask John-David for scientific evidence to sup- 
port his claims, he points to the anecdotal testimony of 
hundreds of former students, students who’ ve responded 
to his “Whole or Half Brain?” advertisements in such 
mainstream publications as The New York Times. The 
John-David Learning Institute opened four years ago and 
grosses more than $250,000 a month, he says, through 
tape sales and nation-wide seminars. And in November 
1987 John-David opened the first of several brain/mind 
salons (“your brain’s fitness center”), which feature the 
Synchro-Energizer, the Graham Potentializer, flotation 
tanks, an Alpha-Chair chamber, and a geodesic dome. 
‘“‘We envision the gray-flannel executive coming in on his 
lunch hour for a quick brain tune-up,” he says. 
The seminars sponsored by the John-David Learning 
Institute are an awesome experience. This Saturday eve- 
ning, John-David’s thirty-six students, including house- 
wives, an inspirational-T V-talk-show host, a bank officer, 
and a psychologist, were plugged into a seven-minute 
“sound massage” tape that sounded like fingernails rap- 
ping with machine-gun speed against a window pane. 
The sound was designed to “activate their dendrites and 
myelinate their axons,” says John-David, getting their 
brains in shape for the rigorous speed-reading drill that 
would be coming next. 
When the tape was over, John-David’s disciples were 
exhilarated. “I feel as if somebody has been caressing my 
eyeballs!” exclaimed one middle-aged man with a florid 
complexion. 
“It is affecting the optic nerve,” John-David replied 
with a vigorous nod. 
“Does it make any sense that it seemed like someone 
was stimulating my left brain?” someone asked. 
“Yes—of course!” cried John-David. 
John-David tunes up his brain at the John-David Learning Institute in 
Carlsbad, Callfornia. 
wy 
The group opened copies of Bill Cosby’s Fatherhood 
and began running their fingers over the upside-down 
pages, babbling nonsense. 
“Line-line-space-headline-line-line-space. . . .” 
Known as grokking (a term borrowed from a science fic- 
tion novel), this preliminary procedure was intended, said 
John-David, “to confuse the left brain and focus on the 
right brain, the intuitive side. You’ll soon be comfortable 
photographing the entire page with your right hemi- 
sphere.” 
Ata 
signal, the students flipped their books right-side 
up and began scanning the pages. 
“Fifteen thousand words a minute!” screamed a 
teacher in her thirties. 
“Twenty-eight thousand words a minute!” one-upped 
an Indian gentleman seated beside her. 
A black-haired New York playwright wearing Tammy 
Faye Bakker makeup began quivering, tears and mascara 
cascading down her cheeks. “I can’t believe it,” she 
sobbed as John-David massaged her shoulders. “I went 
through eleven different schools as a child, and I could 
never even finish a book. This is the first time in my life 
I’ve ever enjoyed reading.” One of John-David’s assis- 
tants rushed over and pinned a gold star on her blouse. 
espite such testimonials and dramatic emo- 
tional displays, however, some of John-David’s 
colleagues in the brain-building world don’t put 
much faith in his teaching methods, although 
that’s not really surprising, considering the industry is rent 
by as much collegial jealousy as academia is. “He’s using 
twenty-year-old technology,” says Arnold Stillman, who 
runs a mind-tech salon called the Transformational Train- 
ing Center in Encino. “If I had to depend strictly on 
tapes, I’d be in a lot of trouble.” 
Since opening his “educational clinic” eighteen 
months ago, Stillman and his wife, Marcia, who has a 
Ph.D. in educational psychology, have treated 450 dys- 
lexic adults and children, using a variety of brain-building 
tools. The first one I tried was the Brain Wave Analyzer, 
which consists of a plastic band that fits snugly around the 
head with contact probes touching the scalp and earlobes. 
The Brain Wave Analyzer, says Stillman, “measures your 
neural efficiency quotient, which translates into a close 
approximation of your IQ.” The Stillmans use the gadget 
instead of written tests, which they insist are culturally bi- 
ased. 
Marcia Stillman screwed the device tightly to my 
skull and clamped two metal pins to my ears. Her hus- 
band stood over a computer printer, studying the readout. 
“Jesus!” he said, whistling softly. 
What’s going on? I thought. Surely, my seismic 
brain-wave activity must be classifying me as a genius. 
No such luck. “Did you ever experience any reading 
or writing difficulties in school?” asked Arnold Stillman. 
“Your IQ is registering about 112. And it seems you’re 
borderline dyslexic.” 
The Stillmans—who are not licensed psychologists 
but operate the Transformational Training Center under 
the auspices of Dr. Ronald Doctor, who is licensed—use 
