to bend it; B, E, and F used two hands to bend the 
spoon... while D tried to hide his hands under a 
table to bend the spoon.” Today, Taylor has 
retracted many of his 1975 claims. 
When my father was investigating mediums, they 
often claimed that the spirits would stay away if 
there was a skeptic in the room. So if an investiga- 
tor frisked the medium for gadgets, the spirits 
would fail to materialize. This is a very convenient 
explanation for why paranormal phenomena disap- 
pear when someone looks closely, and it is invoked 
in many ways by New Age theorists. The Amazing 
Randi is strongly disliked by the modern parapsy- 
chological community, and quite unwelcome at 
psychic demonstrations because of this “skeptics 
effect.’’ A simpler explanation for why something 
isn’t there when you look carefully is that it isn’t 
there at all. Beware of anyone who says you 
mustn't look closely. 
2. 
This next guideline grows out of the first. Watch 
out for paranormal phenomena that are cloaked 
in noise. 
“Noise’’ in this sense means any kind of confusion, 
static, or fuzz that obscures what you’re looking 
for. Leonard’s moon marvels are an example, lost 
as they are in the graininess of his photographs at 
Another example comes from the Journal of the 
American Society for Psychical Research on my 
father’s bookshelves. One psychic investigator 
theorized that psychokinesis, the mind’s alleged 
ability to move objects by will power, might de- 
pend on what elements the objects were made 
of. Zinc might respond differently than zirconium. 
The straightforward way to test this would be to 
suspend a piece of each element in such a way 
that the slightest force would move it, then sit 
back and concentrate on each one to see which 
moves in response. Of course, the objects would 
probably sit there and do nothing. The experi- 
menter seemed to unconsciously realize this, so 
he instead fashioned dice out of different elements 
and rolled them thousands of times down a sloping 
board, concentrating on what numbers he wanted 
to turn up. 
Obviously, the amount of force needed to influ- 
ence bouncing dice is far greater than the force 
needed, say, to deflect a needle suspended on a 
string in a vacuum. But the rolling dice added 
statistical noise to the experiment, giving the 
researcher something to work with. His results 
were not clear-cut, but with a statistics-based ex- 
perimental design a researcher can fiddle around 
endlessly, matching good and bad runs to mood, 
the weather, phases of the moon, sunspots, and 
so on, making a nice thick report for a psychical 
research journal. 
Dr. J. B. Rhine of Duke University pioneered the 
eS 
the limits of resolution, where everything gets 
fuzzy and random. 
In 1935, the Director of the Foren- 
sic Institute of the Latvian State 
University in Riga, Dr. F. von 
Neureiter, published a monograph 
describing his experimental observa- 
tions of a 9-year-old mentally re- 
tarded (I.Q. of 48) Latvian girl, Ilga 
Kirks, who supposedly was able to 
read the thoughts of her teacher 
and mother, as well as other indi- 
viduals. Even though she had great 
difficulty reading Latvian from a 
book, she could read Latvian as well 
as foreign languages rather fluently 
if these were read silently by another 
person. Von Neureiter thought that 
the girl had genuine telepathic abili- 
ty, and the case of Ilga K., as she is 
referred to in the literature, became 
well known both in Latvia and abroad. 
In 1936 and 1937, a specially formed 
Commission, made up of 13 profes- 
sionals representing psychology, 
physics, medicine, and speech and 
hearing disorders, conducted and ex- 
tensive series of tests of liga K. 
Some of these were conducted in a 
THE CASE OF ILGA K. 
soundproof room and in a Faraday 
cage (an insulated cubicle that keeps 
out electromagnetic waves). 
In their report, the Commission 
concluded that no paranormality 
was involved in liga’s ability. When 
the agent was llga’s mother, the 
word that the mother was thinking 
of was “‘sent’’ to her daughter by 
breaking it down into separate 
phonemes and tacking these onto 
the ends of the words of encour- 
agement uttered by the mother. llga 
would pick them out and put them 
together into a whole word. When 
the mother was made to keep quiet 
or was isolated in a soundproof 
room, llga failed to receive, or else 
was only partly successful by using 
the highly expressive gestures and 
lip movements of the mother. Ilga 
was most successful with individuals 
who strongly moved their lips, 
tongue, and larynx while thinking or 
reading, which was the case with 
her teacher who had first brought 
llga’s ability to the attention of the 
scientists. She could learn nothing 
from her mathematics teacher, 
whose subvocal speech was very 
weak, but a special teacher assigned 
by the Latvian Commission to tutor 
Ilga at home learned the communi- 
cation method that Ilga and her 
mother were using and was able to 
replicate and even better the 
mother’s performance. Ilga’s ability 
was apparently one that she had 
developed on her own to compen- 
sate for her rather severe intellec- 
tual deficit. In spite of the fact that 
the Latvian Commission’s work 
leaves not the slightest doubt as to 
the true nature of Ilga K.’s phenom- 
enon, and the additional fact that 
von Neureiter was one of the 
Commission’s members, some para- 
psychologists still present her case 
as a genuine case of telepathy, ig- 
noring the Commission’s report 
altogether. 
—from Anomalistic Psychology 
by Leonard Zusne and 
Warren H. Jones 
189 
