Anomalistic Psychology 
Faith-healing, fire walking, past-life recall, trance-medium- 
ship (“channeling”), glossolalia (“speaking in tongues”), ESP, 
dowsing: of all the sciences, psychology is the one most prop- 
erly equipped to study such phenomena, yet the popular 
writing on these subjects leaves the impression that they've 
either been ignored by psychologists or that psychologists 
have been unable to deal with them. Anomalistic Psychology 
demonstrates that this simply isn’t true. Designed as a col- 
lege text, this book describes certain little-known, astonishing 
abilities of mind and perception that help to put seemingly mi- 
raculous phenomena in a whole new light. Glossolalia, for in- 
stance, can be related to well-studied patterns of speech 
invention in children. Many cases of “telepathy” have proved, 
upon examination, to be due to the extraordinary detection of 
faint sensory stimuli. 
Cryptomnesia (hidden memory) is often 
partially responsible for the content of “past-life memories.” 
But even though objective investigation has often elimi- 
nated supernatural explanations, the authors, both psycholo- 
gists, are careful not to adopt a debunking tone. Genuine 
mysteries are not denied, and alternative possibilities are not 
downplayed. 
The authors’ only assumption is that, however 
inexplicable, any phenomenon is accessible by the scientific 
method. 
The result is fascinating reading. 
The genuine psychologi- 
cal phenomena described here are at least as wonderful as 
the paranormal phenomena they explain. 
—T.S. 
e 
[Psychic researcher Harry] Price thought that fire walking 
could be explained by the short contact time between foot and 
embers, the low heat conductivity of wood embers, and confi- 
dence and steadiness in walking. He discounted or minimized 
the role of some of the other factors already discussed, such 
as the chemical preparation of the feet, the spheroidal state, 
or the need for special preparations. 
One of the factors that is not stressed in reports on fire 
walking is that fire walking is walking, not standing still on em- 
bers or stones. There is no recorded instance of anyone’s 
ever having attempted to just stand on red-hot stones or glow- 
ing embers for any length of time. The walkers walk rapidly, 
and it may take them only five or six steps to traverse a 20- 
foot long trench, for instance. As anyone who has felt the 
temptation to challenge the flame of a lit candle knows, it is 
possible to pass one’s finger through the flame repeatedly 
and not get burned, provided one does not linger too long in 
the flame. It takes a couple of seconds for the skin tempera 
ture to reach the point where damage will begin to occur. 
Rapid walking through the embers, moving one’s feet so that 
no one point is in contact with the embers for more than just a 
fraction-of a second, should not allow the skin temperature to 
rise enough for burns to occur, even after several steps have 
been taken. Whatever heat accumulates from the four to six 
steps taken is dissipated on the cool grass or loose earth 
around the pit before the walker takes another walk. 
e 
The "true" medium is one who dissociates readily. Prone- 
ness to dissociation, repeated practice, and the expectant 
and supportive atmosphere of the seance room combine to 
make the medium’s performance what it is: a smooth and reli- 
able passage into the trance state and the impressive welling 
up of autonomous portions of her divided consciousness that 
are taken as the manifestations of the spirits of the dead. 
e 
In 1903, Professor R. Blondlot, head of the physics de- 
partment of the University of Nancy, in France, announced the 
discovery of a new and amazing form of radiation, which he 
named N-rays. Blondlot reported that N-rays were emitted 
naturally by several different metals, but never by wood, and 
that they were faintly visible to the naked eye in a darkened 
room. Soon, other investigators, particularly in France, were 
A case of 
pareldolila, 
projected 
mispercep- 
tion. Mrs. 
Marla Rublo 
and her tor- 
tilla image 
of Jesus. 
replicating and extending Professor Blondlot’s findings. Many 
other substances giving off N-rays were added to the list (e.g., 
human tissue, plants, and even a human corpse), but, again, 
never wood. The prestigious French Academy of Sciences pub- 
lished almost 100 papers on the topic within a year of Blond- 
lot’s original discovery, and it announced the decision to 
award Blondlot a medal and a cash prize for his accomplish- 
ment. 
However, researchers outside of France were generally 
unable to replicate Blondlot’s findings. Eventually, R. W. 
Wood, a scientist working in Great Britain, visited Blondiot in 
his laboratory at Nancy to observe directly the now famous N- 
rays. But, still unable to detect N-rays even in Blondlot’s lab 
with Blondlot himself conducting the demonstrations, Wood 
decided that N-rays might be more imaginary than real. Wood 
proved this by surreptitiously altering some of Blondlot’s appa- 
ratus. For example, he substituted a wooden roller for a metal 
file that Blondlot was using as the source of N-rays. When 
Blondlot reported that he could still see the N-rays, Wood had 
evidence that N-rays were non-existent because all investiga- 
tors had reported that wooden objects did not produce N-rays. 
Several other tests also suggested self-delusion. When 
Wood's findings and conclusions were reported to the scien- 
tific community, the phenomenon of N-rays passed into the 
history of pseudoscience. 
Commentators have generally agreed that the phenome- 
non of N-rays was not a hoax of the usual sort. Apparently, 
Blondlot was sincere in his beliefs. He certainly was a quali- 
fied scientist in terms of training and expertise. What the saga 
of N-rays does sadly illustrate is the powerful influence that 
wishes and extrinsic motivation can have on judgments and 
reasoning. Blondlot’s folly occurred at a time when other 
strange forms of radiation, such as X-rays, were being discov- 
ered. It is likely that Blondlot deluded himself (as did many 
others) because of the strong desire to participate in the excit- 
ing advancements in science being made at that time. 
Anomalistic Psychology 
A Study of Extraordinary Phenomena 
of Behavior and Experience 
Leonard Zusne and Warren H. Jones 
1982; 498 pp. 
$29.95 
postpaid from: 
Lawrence Erlbaum Publishing 
365 Broadway 
Hillsdale, NJ 07642 
201/666-4110 
