Yh ZF 
i 
Ui at 
ASS 
N \ 
KW 
ih 
Tue Hippen History OF THE NEw AGE 
by Jay Kinney 
ROM CHANNELERS TO CRYSTALS TO 
Shirley MacLaine, the “New Age” is the latest 
fad to sweep America. Yet, although marketing 
categories such as “New Age music” and “Néw 
Age books” may be recent arrivals on the scene, the New 
Age itself is hardly new. Nearly every spiritual or cultural 
phenomenon associated with the term dates back at least 
several generations and, as we’ll see shortly, a striking 
number of them—including the occult concepts of 
“karma,” “auras,” “chakras,” and “astral projection” — 
were first introduced to the public by a single little-known 
nineteenth-century organization and its offshoots. 
The highest profile New Age phenomenon, channel- 
ing, dates back well over a hundred years to 1848, when 
the Fox family of Hydesville, New York, reportedly com- 
municated with disembodied spirits that responded to 
questions with.ghostly rapping and knocking noises. The 
Fox daughters ultimately went on tours demonstrating this 
“ability,” and a spirit-rapping craze swept the U.S. In 
short order, mediums acquired the ability to receive far 
more sophisticated communiques from the dead, includ- 
ing spiritual teachings and materialized objects. Spiritual- 
ism as an organized movement had its ups and downs in 
the ensuing years as scandals over fraudulent mediums 
erupted and popular curiosity was satiated. Still, it per- 
sisted as a mass phenomenon into the 1920s, and a dedi- 
cated core of proponents remains to this day. The only 
things really distinguishing modern channeling from this 
earlier form of trance mediumship are the sophistication 
in marketing techniques that mediums such as J. Z. 
Knight (channeler of “Ramtha”) have brought to the field, 
and the ability of all the ’80s spirit guides to speak the 
lingo of the moment. 
The phenomenon of Eastern gurus arriving on our 
shores to teach Americans the virtues of yoga, Hinduism, 
and Buddhism isn’t new either. It can be traced back to 
the World Parliament of Religions, held in Chicago in 
1893 at the Columbian Exposition. Along with Confu- 
cians, Shinto priests, and Buddhist monks, Swami Vive- 
kananda, a devotee of the Indian saint Sri Ramakrishna, 
came to that groundbreaking ecumenical conference and 
found the U.S. to be surprisingly hospitable to “new” reli- 
gious teachings from other shores. The Parliament was 
the hit of the Exposition, and turnaway crowds attended 
the public lectures. The Vedanta Society of America, 
founded by Vivekananda the next year, continues to this 
day, the granddaddy of Eastern spiritual groups trans- 
planted to the U.S. And in the early 1930s, the Indian 
teacher Paramahansa Yogananda, author of the best- 
selling Autobiography of a Yogi, set up the Self Realiza- 
tion Fellowship in the Los Angeles area and ministered to 
the seekers of Southern California for decades, giving 
Americans one of their first practical tastes of yoga. 
Even the term “New Age” begins to show its age with 
a little digging. The late Corinne Heline, a long-time 
mainstay of metaphysical bookshelves, founded her quar- 
terly magazine, the New Age Interpreter, in 1940, well be- 
fore most present New Agers were born. Even older, The 
New Age Magazine, the monthly magazine of the “Su- 
preme Council, 33°, Ancient & Accepted Scottish Rite of 
Freemasonry of the Southern Jurisdiction,” won its sec- 
ond-class mailing privileges in 1914, and has been pub- 
lishing since the turn of the century! Clearly, the hope 
that we are entering or have already entered a new era of 
spiritual enlightenment and progress has been with us as 
we've gotten into and out of both world wars, seen the 
proliferation of nuclear weaponry, and experienced the 
onset of the “greenhouse effect.” But then, perhaps the 
Just how new is the New Age? Not very, according to Jay Kinney, who here delineates the New Age’s origins in the antics of the 
nineteenth-century Theosophical Society. On matters of esoteric spirituality, Kinney knows whereof he speaks: He’s editor of Gnosis: 
A Journal of the Western Inner Traditions (see p. 30). He’s also a past editor of Whole Earth Review (when it was known as CoEvo- 
lution Quarterly) where, among other things, he organized special issues on “Politics and Religion” and “Islam.” 
—TS. 
22 
