people began to have real or imagined experiences with 
the saucers and their bewildering array of occupants. 
Some were called “contactees,” while others—“ab- 
ductees”—insisted they had been kidnapped, usually in 
isolated areas. By the mid-1950s there were over fifty 
thousand contactees and abductees in the United States, 
many of whom started or joined New Age organizations. 
Believers and I.G.s clustered around them. One ’50s con- 
vention at Giant Rock, California, drew more than ten 
thousand people. 
The abductee phenomenon extends back to the begin- 
ning of history. Ancient manuscripts found in Russia tell 
what is possibly the earliest story of an abduction by ali- 
ens. Here’s how the father of Methuselah, Enoch, de- 
scribes his experience: 
On the first day of the first month I was in my house 
alone and was resting on my couch and slept. And there 
appeared to me two men, exceeding big, so that I never 
saw such on earth; their faces were shining like the sun, 
their eyes too were like a burning light. . 
. 
These two luminous giants gathered Enoch up and 
took him on a tour of other worlds. He was gone for 
months and when he returned he suffered a bit from the 
partial amnesia or “missing time” commonly reported by 
modern UFO abductees. According to the Bible, Enoch 
did not die. He just disappeared one day: “God took 
him.” 
Several thousand years later, a horror novelist named 
Whitley Strieber woke up in his cabin in the Catskill 
Mountains and found some equally strange visitors in his 
bedroom. Though these were /ittle men who did not 
glow, he was off on an Enochian adventure that he 
quickly turned into a best-selling book, 
Communion (see 
p. 157). Unfamiliar with UFO lore, he didn’t realize that 
thousands of people shared his experiences and many of 
them had also laboriously written books, though often 
these abductees spent their life savings to self-publish 
2.9 
‘ PN 
“A 
5 Ws SO 
ASTON SS 
‘ 
e S Sos? 
them. Some deserted their families, quit their jobs, and 
even changed their names in order to become UFO evan- 
gelists, proselytizing the doctrines of the space brothers. 
Mr. Strieber was not much different from William Den- 
ton, for example, a contactee who stumped the country 
and published books in the 1860s. And you can be sure 
that one hundred years from now, a man in the post-nu- 
clear age will wake up in the middle of the night to see 
frightening phantoms in the darkness of his cave. 
The “aliens” have always been with us, inspiring 
myths and theologies as they impersonated representa- 
tives of “powers and principalities.” Century after cen- 
tury, generation after generation, men and women have 
stood on hilltops, watching in wonder as brilliant multi- 
colored lights danced against the night sky. Having wit- 
nessed such unshakeable evidence of another world, they 
descended and joined the ranks of the Incurably Gullible, 
embracing the rumors that outfly the saucers. According 
to them, our hospitals are filled with prisoners who “know 
too much.” Crashed saucers are everywhere. Bottles of 
pickled little men are undoubtedly hidden at some Air 
Force base although no one has ever seen them—except 
perhaps for a lone TV repairman. And the gigantic gov- 
ernmental conspiracy continues. Meanwhile, an anony- 
mous prankster somewhere out there will send the newest 
batch of childishly phoney documents to the next wave of 
I.G.s, and the rumors and myths will be perpetuated for- 
ever. 
That great phonograph in the sky continues to grind 
away, sending out its messages of hope and hopelessness. 
And a large part of the burgeoning human race will con- 
tinue to worship it. When our currently deteriorating civi- 
lization has crumbled altogether, that phonograph will still 
remain and the survivors will still gather on those hilltops 
to gaze in wonder at mysterious lights, and to listen in 
mesmerized fascination to that phonograph’s single m 
notonous melody. 
ee
a 
Pt) 
i 
“Wl 
