‘ 
the idea that crystal power is indeed an ancient esoteric art, 
providing a “bridge to the heavens.” 
Shamans consider 
crystals to be “living rocks” thrown down by the gods from 
the firmament, thus linking the human and spirit worlds. 
Most shamans use crystals in much the same manner as 
witches and mystics use crystal balls, literally “seeing” the 
patient’s illness inside the crystal with the aid of spirit 
helpers believed to live within the stone. One American In- 
dian tribe, the Southwestern Pomos, employs quartz crystals 
in a very unique healing ceremony: 
the Pomo “sucking 
doctor” sucks the pain from her stricken patient, then pro- 
duces a quartz crystal from her mouth as “proof” the pain has 
been removed.’ 
Other North American Indian tribes are said to have 
used crystals as an aid to “spirit dreaming” (astral projection 
and communicating with the spirits) by placing quartz crys- 
tals on their eyelids before they went to sleep (presumably on 
their backs). And, of course, wizards and magicians were 
wont to use crystals on their magic wands, while the many 
jewels adorning the crowns of kings and queens were sup- 
posed to increase their “cosmic energy,” turning the king 
“into a living battery of power for the nation.” 
The idea that crystals are “living” things has gained 
even more credence today than in the past, now that we know 
crystals actually “grow” from source chemicals, given the 
right geological conditions of heat and pressure, or from 
water seepage and evaporation. Somehow, people have the 
idea that only “living” things can grow but, of course, storms 
can “grow,” deserts can “grow'—even ideas can “grow.” 
Crystals are no more “alive” than storms, deserts, or ideas— 
at least in the biological sense of “alive.” Today, artificial 
man-made crystals can be grown in the laboratory under 
conditions simulating the natural conditions deep within the 
earth (natural crystals are brought to the surface by the 
processes of mountain building, uplifting, and erosion). The 
silicon and germanium crystals that form the substrate for 
the integrated circuits in our computers, TVs, and micro- 
wave ovens are grown by dipping a tiny “seed” crystal in 
molten silicon or germanium, then slowly drawing up the 
rotating seed and its growing cylindrical crystal; lengths of 
18 inches have been achieved by these methods. 
But 
growing such a crystal hardly qualifies as creating a living 
thing! In fact crystals “grow” simply because their symmet- 
rical molecular arrangement is more “energetically favor- 
able” than the non-crystalline liquid or gaseous state the 
chemical begins in. 
One biochemist, Alexander Cairns-Smith, has even 
suggested that tiny quartz crystals in clay at the bottom of 
river beds were the original source of life on the planet (by 
growing and duplicating, along with attached amino acid 
molecules).° Oddly, the “crystals are alive” proponents fail 
to point out that diatoms (primitive algae that make up most 
. 
of the plankton in the world’s oceans) grow crystal-like cell 
walls of silicon dioxide, the same chemical in quartz crystals 
and glass. 
Proponents of crystal power point to the fact that quartz 
and silicon crystals are used in all of our electronic gadgetry, 
from radios to digital watches to computers. Quartz crystals 
are used as “clocks” because they vibrate (resonate) at 
precise electronic frequencies, and crystal power advocates 
believe that these crystal resonant frequencies prove crystals 
can indeed be energized by one’s thoughts. However, quartz 
crystals electronically resonate at extremely fast frequencies 
(millions of cycles per second), while brain wave patterns 
have frequencies of only eight to several hundred cycles per 
second. In addition, the brain generates very tiny electrical 
pulses, only 50 millivolts at synapses deep within the brain. 
Away from the scalp, brain waves are undetectable by even 
“Crystal Power” Claims versus Scientific Properties of Crystals 
| 
CLAIMS 
Crystals have an “energy” field extend- 
Crystal 
ing several feet around the crystal. 
“Energy” 
Crystals held in the hand produce an 
SCIENCE 
Piezoelectricity: mechanical strain (pressure) produces a small 
electric field within quartz and other asymmetrical crystals. 
Vibrations 
Healing 
Powers 
Crystals are 
“Alive” 
32 
“energy” that can be felt as a tingling 
sensation. 
Crystals can pick up “vibrations” from 
thought patterns which are then 
“tocked in” the crystal. 
Prayers, thoughts, and feelings can be 
transmitted to a crystal several feet 
away. 
Crystals, especially quartz, act as 
“healing centers”; wishes and thoughts 
of good health are “locked in” the crys- 
tal which is then worn by the patient. 
Because crystals grow & reproduce 
themselves, they are alive, perhaps 
even the source of life itself. 
Pyroelectricity: heated quartz and tourmaline crystals produce a 
small electric field; however, the heat of one’s hand is far too low 
for this. (Tourmaline heated in a fire will attract ashes.) 
Crystal oscillation: thin slices of quartz are used as oscillators in 
the thousand- and million-cycles-per-second range; brain waves 
are in the eight-to-several-hundred-cycles-per-second range. 
Brain wave electrical patterns are barely detectable on the 
surface of the skull, much less several feet away. 
Placebos (fake drugs, fake therapy, and even fake surgery) 
can cause 30% to 50% of patients to improve, feel less pain 
(placebo effect). 
Crystals “grow and reproduce” via chemical energy, not because 
they are “alive.” Diatoms, a type of algae, come closest to “liv- 
ing crystals,” but their cell walls are more like glass, not crystal. 
