WAS ONCE a guest on the Long John 
Nebel Show, an all-night radio program 
in New York. We were discussing psychic 
phenomena in general and telekinesis speci- 
fically. I put a dime on the table and said 
that if it could be moved by sheer will power 
I would immediately become a convert. The 
other guests ridiculed me. These were power- 
ful gifts, not to be toyed with, they said. You 
could not move a dime just like that; you 
had to work up to it. 
“All right, let’s start with a penny... ” 
The Amazing Randi was also a guest on that 
show. In 1986, more than a quarter-century 
later, he was a guest on the Johnny Carson 
Show, demonstrating by film and special 
audio techniques how a prominent faith- 
healer “miraculously” received personal in- 
formation about his patients from his wife, 
concealed backstage, transmitting to a radio 
receiver hidden in his ear. I wondered if 
Ronald Reagan’s hearing aid was also actually 
a receiver for data from Nancy on legislators 
so that the absent-minded president could 
“remember” how to blackmail them into 
voting for aid to the Contras. 
N THE FILM Rosemary's Baby, Mia 
Farrow spelled out the name of her 
neighbor with Scrabble letters, and when 
she mixed them around, they spelled out 
the name of a warlock she had been reading 
about in a book on witchcraft. Similarly, if 
you spell out the name of former Vice Presi- 
dent Spiro Agnew with Scrabble letters and 
then mix them around, they spell out GROW 
A PENIS. This is so appropriate that it defies 
ordinary standards of coincidence, for when 
Senator Charles Goodell came out against 
the war in Vietnam, it was Agnew who called 
him “the Christine Jorgensen of the Repub- 
lican Party,” thereby equating military might 
with the mere presence of a penis. 
When Mike Wallace interviewed me for Sixty 
Minutes and asked about the difference be- 
tween the underground press and the main- 
stream media, I told him about the above 
anagram, pointing out: “The difference is 
that I could print that in The Realist, but it'll 
be edited out of this program.” Once again, 
my uncanny ability to forecast events ac- 
curately was dramatically demonstrated. 
In 1963, during a standup performance at 
Manhattan’s Town Hall, I said that the an- 
drogynous singer Tiny Tim would someday 
get married on the Johnny Carson Show. Six 
years later it happened. I thought I had 
206 
merely been projecting into the future a cer- 
tain cultural trend of co-option, but Baba 
Ram Dass has called this an example of 
astral humor. “The connections are all out 
there,” he said, pointing to the heavens. 
“It’s just a matter of plucking them.” 
I guess one person's logic is another person’s 
astral humor. More recently, I’ve said on 
stage that an AIDS victim would be charged 
with attempted murder when he spat at 
someone, and that came true. I’ve also said 
that since facial stubble has become fashion- 
able by the grace of Miami Vice, some entre- 
preneur would market a razor that left facial 
stubble, and that came true. 
This is comedy voodoo, and we mustn't let it 
fall into the wrong hands. I’ve recently said 
on stage that the next baboon-to-baby heart 
transplant would take place as soon as 
another baboon was in an auto accident and 
the proper release papers were signed by its 
parents. Does this mean there will soon be a 
rash of auto accidents involving baboons? 
m2) N 1970 I took a workshop with John 
Lilly at Esalen. He was attempting to 
explore mysticism by the scientific method. 
We were not allowed to use such words as 
“project,” “fantasize,” “daydream,” or “ra- 
tionalize.” For the purpose of the workshop 
we had to accept any experience as reality. 
I communicated with my old friend Lenny 
Bruce, who had died four years previously. 
Lilly had been talking about not publishing 
the book he was working on, The Deep Self, 
and Lenny told me to tell him that it was his 
responsibility to publish it. But Lilly was con- 
sistent. “That’s Lenny’s problem,” 
he said. 
Nevertheless, the book was published. 
Later on, this contact with the grave con- 
tinued, but I was now allowed to rationalize 
that I was using Lenny as a touchstone, pro- 
jecting how I thought he would feel about 
something. I told his widow, Honey, about 
this, and she said that she communicated 
with the spirit of Lenny, too. I asked, “How 
do you know you're not just projecting?” 
She replied, “I know.” Who could argue 
with that? 
N 1972, six weeks after the Watergate 
— 
break-in, I presented the printer with 
a manuscript by assassination researcher Mae 
Brussell, titled “Why Was Martha Mitchell 
Kidnapped?” While the mass media still 
