Rumor! and More Rumor! 
Rumor! 
Hal Morgan and Kerry Tucker 
1984; 158 pp. 
$3.50 
($6.50 postpaid) 
Both from: 
™ 
More Rumor! 
Penguin Books 
Hal Morgan and Kerry Tucker 
Attn: DMO 
1987; 206 pp. 
299 Murray Hill Parkway 
$3.50 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
($6.50 postpaid) 
Did you ever hear that Walt Disney was frozen when he 
died? (Not true.) That Mrs. Fields charges $250 for her 
cookie recipe? (Not true.) That the Procter and Gamble trade- 
mark is a Satanic symbol? (Not true.) That the liquid in golf 
balls is a powerful explosive? (Not true.) That B.F. Skinner's 
daughter spent her infancy in a “Skinner box”? (Not exactly 
true.) That “Ring Around the Rosy” refers to the 1606 Black 
Plague of London? (Not true.) That there are alligators in New 
York’s sewers? (Possibly true.) 
For those who worry excessively about the veracity of such 
stories, Rumor! and More Rumor! may be the key to a full 
night’s sleep at last. Not unexpectedly, most of these popular 
rumors fall into the category of “not true,” but some very inter- 
esting ones turn out to be “true,” 
or, in the case of invisible 
Navy ships and crashed flying saucers, “unconfirmed” 
or “un- 
verifiable.” Provided you’ve done your homework in advance, 
you'll probably earn back the purchase price of these two vol- 
umes the first time you use them to settle a bet. 
—T.S. 
800/631-3577 
e 
Albert Einstein’s brain now sits in a cider box in the corner 
of a doctor’s office in Wichita, Kansas. (1978) 
True. Or at least that’s where the brain was when Steven 
Levy, a reporter from New Jersey Monthly magazine, tracked it 
down in 1978. Einstein had requested that, after his death, 
his brain be used for research. When he died on April 18, 
1955, the most celebrated brain of our time was carefully re- 
moved from Einstein’s body and preserved. The rest of the 
body was cremated. 
The brain fell under the care of Dr. Thomas S. Harvey, the 
pathologist at the Princeton, New Jersey, hospital where Ein- 
stein had died. Dr. Harvey made plans for a team of experts 
to study the brain to try to unlock the mystery of its genius. 
But after his first examination of the tissue he commented: 
“It looks just like anybody else’s.” 
Microscopic sections were taken and distributed for closer 
study, but, when the New Jersey reporter tracked down Dr. 
Harvey in 1978, no findings had been published. 
Dr. Harvey, 
by then a supervisor at a biological testing laboratory in Wich- 
ita, offered to show the reporter the pieces of the brain that 
remained. The reporter was spellbound as the doctor reached 
into a cardboard cider box in the corner of his office and 
pulled out a Mason jar holding the specimen: 
“| had risen to look into the jar, but now | was sunk in my 
chair, speechless. My eyes were fixed upon that jar as | tried 
to comprehend that these pieces of gunk bobbling up and 
down had caused a revolution in physics and quite possibly 
changed the course of civilization. 
There it was!” 
_—Rumor! 
e = If you put a troll doll 
in the freezer its hair will 
grow. (1963) 
Not true. 
—More Rumor! 
Suddenly the cloud began to lift. The phosphores- 
cent glow of the ship and the crew began to fade. It 
gradually died away . 
. . In minutes the cloud had passed 
over the vessel and we saw it moving off over the sea. 
It loomed above the water as a great gray mass, spotted 
like a leopard’s back with bright, glowing patches. 
Linguist and writer on paranormal subjects Charles 
Berlitz has interviewed modern witnesses who claim to 
have encountered similar magnetic clouds in the area now 
known as the Bermuda Triangle. But no one, including 
the young Carl Allen, knew of such things in the 1940s. 
The 1904 Inquirer story was reprinted several times and it 
finally turned up, with some rather vivid additions, in a 
Sunday newspaper supplement called The American 
Weekly. During the 1930s and '40s, The American Weekly 
was edited by a Fortean named A.A. Merritt. Each issue 
was filled with stories of vampires, ghosts, and items 
gleaned from the works of the “Father of Anomalies,” 
Charles Fort (see page 81). Merritt, who was a famous 
science fiction writer, did not hesitate to make his factual 
yams more entertaining by adding a bit of the blarney. 
The impressionable Mr. Allen was greatly influenced by 
Merritt’s treatment of the Mohican account and since Phi- 
ladelphia was mentioned, he must have assumed the mag- 
netic cloud was directly related to the strange goings-on at 
the Naval Yard. He put everything together in his own 
way and came up with the now-legendary Philadelphia 
Experiment. 
Rumors of the Philadelphia Experiment have endured 
since World War II simply because none of the believers 
can accept the well-established facts of the situation. 
They regard the many published accounts of the Manhat- 
tan Project’s activities in the Philadelphia Naval Yard as 
part of a massive government coverup. There is no truth, 
you see, except the Truth accepted by cultists. They don’t 
want to be confused with facts when there are so many 
delicious rumors available. This is, in fact, one of the ma- 
jor features of a good cult rumor: It can’t be proven, nor 
can it be disproven, so it must be true! The more the ru- 
mor is denied, the more the cultists are certain of its ve- 
racity. They are especially certain of rumors that conform 
to their particular belief systems. This attitude has kept 
the Flat Earthers in business for a long time: Everyone 
who denies the flatness of the Earth is, naturally enough, 
part of the conspiracy. Any NASA scientist who claims 
the Earth is really round is obviously lying through his 
teeth. 
Take the Aztec, New Mexico, affair, for another ex- 
ample. That’s where a flying saucer supposedly crashed 
in 1947, spilling out a number of bodies, all very small 
(about three feet tall), which the Air force whisked away 
to Ohio and pickled in bottles. The rumor of the little 
bodies has been floating around ever since, and it is peri- 
odically revived. The cyclical recurrence of these revivals 
is More interesting in many ways than the story itself. It’s 
as if someone somewhere wants to keep this rumor alive. 
Every few years a new set of alleged government docu- 
ments appears in the mailbox of some cult leader. The 
origin of these phoney documents is a mystery, though 
they are usually so poorly executed that only the Incura- 
1 i 
‘Ss 
' 
