INTRODUCTION 
aa 
a 
uy 
ou've got to, 
explore the edges 
to see where the 
middle is going.” 
—Stewart 
Brand, 
1986 
las is not a book about Orthodoxy. 
lnetead, this is a book about tinkerers who spend their lives in basements 
perfecting perpetual motion machines, contactees who converse on a first-name 
basis with entities from outer space, and reincarnationists who remember past 
lives as royalty on the lost continent of Atlantis. This is, in fact, a book about 
people so fed up with Orthodoxy and the mundane bit part it handed them that 
they did something about it. Something imaginative. Something colorful. 
Something 
. 
. 
. different. 
la book is above all a celebration of the strange beliefs and eccentric theories 
that these people have created. Their unconventional world-views constitute a 
highly entertaining, subterranean art form that has for the most part been ignored 
by the mainstream media. Whether or not these peculiar notions are literally true, 
tales of flying saucer abductions, spontaneous human combustion, astral travel, 
inner-earth civilizations, and pyramids on Mars possess a haunting surreality and 
an arcane aesthetic that communicate directly to the unconscious mind. 
Bai are they literally true? In addition to appreciating these modern mythologies 
for their own sakes, in the pages that follow we attempt to answer this question. 
Whenever possible we include a diversity of opinion, ranging from the extrava- 
gant enthusiasms of true believers to the earthbound pronouncements of hard- 
nosed skeptics. Experts on these neglected subjects (eccentric scholars them- 
selves) present the elusive histories and backgrounds of oddball ideas. And, in 
true Whole Earth Catalog tradition, we’ve gone to considerable trouble to 
supply complete access information—names, addresses, titles and sources of 
books and periodicals—so that you can get directly in touch with outré organiza- 
tions that you won't find listed in the yellow pages. Write away and experience 
the unparallelled thrill of a potential secret of the universe arriving in the mail! 
So step right up, dear reader, and enter the carnival sideshow of Unorthodoxy, 
where page after page of peculiarity makes clear that despite our cocksure age 
of science, rationalism, and homogeneous mass media, mutant ideas continue 
to spawn, fission, and multiply. Perhaps the reason for this unexpected fact was 
provided most succinctly by novelist and Merry Prankster Ken Kesey at a 
“Summer of Love Twentieth Anniversary Celebration” held in San Francisco in 
1987, where he proclaimed, “Facts are dull. Stories are interesting. We're up to 
our noses in facts. We want Story . 
. 
. we need Story.” 
A. you'll soon see, fringe theorists may not always provide us with a lot of facts 
to substantiate their claims, but they sure as hell deliver Story. 
—Ted Schultz, Editor 
