part of the $1,500 tuition for a new passenger-student to 
enter the game. 
At first glance, this seemed like a selfless sharing of 
spoils, but sponsorship—practiced by many pilot-facilita- 
tors—was hardly a free ride. The recipient still had to do all 
the dirty work—recruiting—and when (and if) they finally 
did “facilitate out,” half of their booty plus the initial $1,500 
loan would go to the sponsor. If Flame had taken her initial 
$12,000 and sponsored seven people plus herself—and if 
these reinvestments panned out—she would make $54,000. 
The mood at the meeting was upbeat and optimistic. “We 
always have the choice to come from love or fear,” Star Child 
observed. “People who come from fear keep saying it’s not 
gonna work, or the cops are gonna get us. But some of us are 
coming from love,” she continued, “and the knowledge that 
we’re all connected at the spirit level. What I ask the god/ 
goddess for, I get!” 
“Purity of intention is everything,” said Soaring Heart. 
“Where your attention goes,” cried Earth and Wind, “your 
energy flows!” 
A warm tide of New Age panegyrics washed through the 
room, and everyone felt very good about themselves. The 
hubbub was joined by a bearded, beaming man called 
Godspeed. “I read another article in the Oakland Tribune 
two days ago,” he announced. “It says they’re not going to 
go after us!” 
“That’s true,” Icarus declared. “The police won’t get 
involved unless there are complaints.” His words set off a 
new round of debate, as speculations about this information 
began to circulate, like wind devils, around the room. 
Blue Pearl picked this moment to enter. He surveyed the 
scene with alarm. “What is this?” he boomed, in the pitiless 
tone of a Nordic schoolmaster confronted with an unruly 
kindergarten. The chatter abruptly ceased. After a moment, 
a woman named Laughing Buddha called out, “Take it 
easy—everything’s fine!” 
Blue Pearl pressed his lips tightly together. He stared 
menacingly at Laughing Buddha and spoke very slowly. 
“Did I say it wasn’t beautiful?” There was dead silence. “Did 
I say it wasn’t beautiful?” 
“No,” she whispered. Someone began to laugh, then 
another. Blue Pearl smiled thinly, and the meeting slowly 
38 
resumed its previous joviality. It was a wonderful lesson in 
primate posturing. Despite a few million years of evolution, 
a roomful of New Age therapists differs very little from a 
clan of jungle monkeys. 
After the meeting broke up into the smaller workshops, 
it became clear that the media storm really had damaged the 
game’s “energy flow.” It was confusing. On the one hand, 
there was the go-get-’em spirit of the big meetings; on the 
other hand were the curt rejections, even ridicule, from 
friends and neighbors. 
People who dwelled upon the math were about as wel- 
come as vegetarians at a moose hunt. It was far too early, the 
general wisdom held, for numbers to be a problem. It had to 
be the fault of the press—and the fact that people just weren’t 
trying hard enough, or long enough, with the right people. 
Worse, the fear that the game was faltering would surely be 
a self-fulfilling prophecy. You couldn’t recruit a friend in 
good conscience unless the game was working, but the game 
wouldn’t work unless you kept recruiting friends. 
Trying to sort out this head-splitting Catch-22 was pro- 
voking states of something close to panic in some people. 
One haggard-looking woman, code-named Artemesia, con- 
fessed that, in spite of the group’s goal to keep the game 
“light and playful,” she had taken a tranquilizer before the 
meeting. 
“T do think about the money,” she admitted. “I’m not 
sitting here with a smile on my face. The responsibility is 
endless, and that’s fine, but I’m not enjoying it. My integrity 
is on the line.” 
Icarus sympathized. The days of cashing in in one or two 
meetings were over; new recruits were looking at a week at 
least and maybe much longer. Still, nobody dared say 
“never.” 
Jewel, another woman in my group, was more reassur- 
ing. The reason for the present slowdown was obvious. 
Mercury, she explained—the planet that controls transac- 
tional encounters, communication, and money—was in 
retrograde. On March 14 that astronomical cycle would end, 
and the game would surely pick up. “Until then,” Jewel 
advised Artemesia, “think about technique.” 
ohn Porter, supervising deputy attorney general for 
consumer fraud in San Francisco, eyed the infinity 
process guidelines and leaned back in his chair. “Based 
on that sheet of paper,” he said, “I can’t tell that it’s a 
pyramid. The question is, do you make money by bringing 
new people into the workshop?” 
That, I admitted, was the general idea. “Then it’s a pyra- 
mid,” he said. “The money is delayed through a few levels, 
but the inducement is for you to become a facilitator.” 
Porter, a sixteen-year veteran of consumer fraud, has a 
file drawer full of the pyramid schemes that found fertile 
ground on his beat—from Holiday Magic to Dare to Be 
Great, Koscot Interplanetary to the Circle of Gold. All of 
these scams were similar, once you stripped away the veneer, 
to the Abundance Workshop. All played up a pipe dream of 
easy, dramatic gain on a small investment; all pretended to 
serve noble goals; all required an ever-expanding base of 
new investors. And all had been busted. I asked whether the 
Abundance Workshop could be far behind. 
