SN 
WMMLUUU 
ttt, 
i 
IS 
LL, SS 
| 
Ss Yy \. 
RN 
< f 
> SX 
WS 
SS 
THE GREAT 
HONOGRAPH 
IN THE SKY 
EAR FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA, ONE ENTIRE WING 
of an out-of-the-way military hospital is sealed off and heavily 
guarded. For over four decades, the wing has housed a single pa- 
tient, well tended by doctors and nurses who are sworn to secrecy. 
He is a victim of one of the strangest episodes in naval history: the Disap- 
pearance of Flight 19. 
Unless you’ve been in a coma for the past forty years, you’ 
ve probably 
heard the story of Flight 19. On December 5, 1945, five Grumman Avenger 
torpedo bombers carrying a total of fourteen men took off on a routine train- 
ing flight off the coast of Florida. Even though they were equipped with ra- 
dar and the latest in navigation gear, they all managed to get lost. Later that 
same day, a Mariner flying boat with thirteen men aboard went searching 
for them. It vanished too. In the weeks that followed, a massive search by 
air, sea, and land was conducted, covering many thousands of miles. But 
not a trace of Flight 19 or the Mariner was found. No floating debris, no oil 
slicks, nothing. Forty-two years later, in 1987, a single Avenger plane was 
found under thirty feet of water a few miles from the Florida coastline, but 
it has not been positively identified as a participant in Flight 19. 
Rumors about Flight 19 have circulated for four decades and have 
served as the fodder for many books. The earliest tale cropped up in Florida 
shortly after the big search was abandoned, claiming that a ship had actually 
rescued a solitary survivor floating on a raft. He was babbling mindlessly 
about horrible things and the Navy put him in a hospital where they have 
been keeping him prisoner ever since. 
As rumors go, the hospital story is a good one because it endorses the 
acute paranoia of those who collect unsolved mysteries. It has been re- 
peated many times in many places over the years. A similar rumor alleges 
that a solitary UFO witness is living in a closed-off section of a hospital in 
San Diego, California. Yet another victim of a paranormal event is lolling 
about in luxury in a hospital in Boston. In 1967, a mystery man turned up 
in England, wandering through the streets of a London suburb stark naked. 
He’s had his own private wing in a British hospital for over two decades 
now. 
In the subculture of fringe beliefs, rumors run rampant. They are often wonder- 
ful and mysterious stories, though ultimately unverifiable. As you read this article, 
bear in mind that John Keel has heard them all. Since his first-person account of 
the mysteries of the Orient, Jadoo, appeared in 1957, Keel has been a central figure 
in outré journalism. Canonized by many UFO 
enthusiasts, Keel is the author of 
such diverse cult classics of UFO and Fortean lore as UFOs: Operation Trojan 
Horse (1970), Strange Creatures From Time and Space (1970), Our Haunted Planet 
(1971), The Eighth Tower (1975), and The Mothman Prophecies (1975). His be- 
mused look at the New Age, Disneyland of the Gods, has just appeared from AMOK 
Press (P.O. Box 875112, Los Angeles, CA 90087; $11.95 postpaid). 
—TS. 
