_PARAPSYCHOLOGY 
GY ) 
The cience of 
Spirituality 
by Charles T. Tart 
n important factor in the current popularity of 
“New Age” ideas is a reaction against the dehu- 
manizing, despiritualizing effects of scientism, 
the philosophical belief (masquerading as ob- 
jective science and held with the emotional tenacity of 
born-again fundamentalism) that we are nothing but mate- 
rial beings. To unthinkingly embrace anything and every- 
thing labeled “spiritual” or “psychic” or “New Age” is, of 
course, foolish, for many of these ideas are factually 
wrong, however noble or inspiring they are. On the other 
hand, this New Age interest is a legitimate recognition of 
some of the realities of human nature: people have always 
had and continue to have experiences that seem to be 
“psychic” or “spiritual.” 
Enough has been discovered in scientific parapsychol- 
ogical research to show that the totally material, scientis- 
tic view of man is only a partial truth, one that is danger- 
ously misleading in claiming to be complete and thus able 
to reject, without empirical examination, our psychic and 
spiritual sides. There is a core of truth in New Age ideas: 
the human mind cannot be limited to the physical brain. 
The mind can sometimes reach out through time and 
space to gather information about and influence both oth- 
er minds and the physical world. If minds can directly 
“touch” each other and the world in this way, is the spiri- 
tual idea that “we are all one” merely an abstract concept? 
This idea has a rational foundation in the reality of telepa- 
thy, for example. We still must discriminate the sense 
from the nonsense in the New Age, but we can use a Sci- 
ence like parapsychology as a valuable aid in our quest. 
Scientific parapsychology is the proper application of 
scientific method to understanding the psychic. We must 
distinguish scientific parapsychology, with its rigorous 
scientific methods, however, from the popular use of the 
term “parapsychology,” which seems to cover anything 
and everything odd, no matter what the quality of the evi- 
dence for it. 
In scientific parapsychology we experimentally set up 
an “impossible” (by known physical standards) situation, 
such as separating people by long distances; without in- 
strumental aids, they cannot communicate. If one person 
now tries to mentally “send” randomly selected target in- 
formation, such as a picture or the order of a deck of shuf- 
fled cards, and the other person draws a reasonable fac- 
simile of that picture or guesses the order of the cards to a 
significantly greater degree than chance would allow, we 
have a “psychic” or “paranormal” (the two most popular 
words) or, more accurately, a “paraconceptual” event. 
Such events should remind us of the tentative nature of all 
our accepted conceptual systems. Proper science then 
calls for more investigation and/or revision of our concep- 
tual systems. Pseudo-critics, who comprise the vast ma- 
jority of ostensibly scientific critics of parapsychology, 
ignore parapsychological data or are so emotionally con- 
vinced there must be something wrong with parapsychol- 
ogical data that they go to extraordinary and quite unsci- 
entific lengths to debunk it. 
The findings of scientific parapsychology over the last 
century (more than a thousand parapsychological experi- 
ments, carried out in accordance with quite strict scienti- 
fic methodology) have repeatedly demonstrated that para- 
conceptual events do happen. Three forms of extrasen- 
sory perception (ESP) have been thoroughly demonstra- 
ted. People can sometimes read others’ thoughts (tele- 
pathy), directly perceive the state of the physical world 
(clairvoyance), or predict a logically unpredictable future 
event (precognition). There is also a form of action at a 
distance, psychokinesis (PK), where mechanical, electron- 
ic, atomic, and biological processes can sometimes be 
altered merely by wishing it. Collectively these four phe- 
nomena are currently called psi (pronounced like sigh) 
phenomena. No known physical energies can satisfactori- 
ly account for them. There may be other kinds of psi, but 
only these four have been researched to a large enough ex- 
tent for me to feel extremely confident of their existence. 
Parapsychology is a very young, very small science. 
As of 1988, I estimate there are less than two dozen full- 
time scientific researchers involved in the Western world, 
with perhaps two to three million dollars a year of re- 
search money for the entire field; this is a trivial level of 
scientific activity, given the complexity of psi and the im- 
portance of understanding it. 
I do not believe that scientific knowledge is the only 
useful kind of truth, but it is extremely valuable. Ques- 
tions about our psychic and spiritual natures are too im- 
portant to be decided by a priori beliefs, either pro or con. 
We should use the best of our scientific resources to give 
us the most accurate information possible about psi. 
a 
Do psychic powers exist? This question has been by no means resolved in the halls of science, as other sections of this book 
make clear. Dr. Charles Tart, one of the world’s foremost parapsychologists, is convinced they do. Dr. Tart, who is on the faculty of 
the University of California at Davis, is the editor of the classic volume Altered States of Consciousness (New York: Doubleday, 
1972) and the author of, among others, States of Consciousness (New York: Dutton, 1975), PSI: Scientific Studies of the Psychic 
Realm (New York: Dutton, 
1977), and, his most recent, Waking Up: Overcoming the Obstacles to Human Potential ($14.95 postpaid 
from Shambhala Publications, Horticulture Hall, 300 Massachusetts Ave., Boston, MA 02115). 
—T.S. 
67 
