had bought into this silly infinity game had done so knowing 
that there were no guarantees of making money. Okay, so it’s 
a scam, a con game, and a lot of otherwise clever people 
swallowed it whole. But was it really that much worse than 
betting on the horses? Or a late-night game of five-card stud? 
In a vitriolic column in the San Francisco Chronicle on Feb- 
ruary 20, colum- 
nist Jon Carroll 
argued 
that 
the latter kind 
of gambling 
is all right, 
since 
one 
man’s 
gain 
doesn’t rely 
on 
another 
man’s 
loss. 
So who pays 
the winners? 
Mother Ther- 
esa? At least 
the people at 
the 
Abun- 
dance Work- 
shop 
were 
getting three 
parties 
a 
week for 
their in- 
vest- 
ment. 
What 
does 
a low- 
| 
income family, 
cajoled by flashy advertisements into 
spending hundreds of dollars a year on Lottery and Lotto 
tickets, get for theirs? 
Granted, the basic premise of the infinity process—that 
it would generate limitless abundance—is such cloying non- 
sense that it’s tempting to dismiss participants’ “growth” as 
mere self-deception. But then again... 
One morning, way back in junior high, all the eighth 
graders were marched into the auditorium to watch a film 
about the evils of marijuana. I well recall that particular se- 
quence, in which a common myth—that food tastes better 
when you’re high—was firmly debunked: An experimental 
group of ten adults—five clinically stoned and five com- 
pletely straight—were given identical hamburgers to eat. 
The control group ate their burgers laconically, without any 
special enthusiasm. The pot-heads, on the other hand, raved 
about how tasty theirs were and complimented the chefs at 
Jack in the Box. 
“So you see,” the narrator sneered, “food doesn’t really 
taste better if you’re stoned; you just think it does.” 
Twenty years have gone by, and uncounted hamburgers. 
But I am no closer to deciphering the riddles of subjectivity 
posed by that narrator’s claim. Did those participants in the 
infinity process really get their money’s worth, or did they 
just think they did? 
y the third meeting in March, it was evident that the re- 
cruitment process had, in the words of one facilitator, 
“ground to a halt.” 
“Receiving a friend into the process” had become 
a catch-as-catch-can affair, relying on distant acquaintances 
or random encounters. Jewel brought a physicist she had met 
somewhere who resembled Sigmund Freud. He listened 
through one meeting with apparent interest; at the next he 
exploded in a frenzy, leaping around the room and handing 
out numbers tables. “Your heads are buried in the sand!” he 
cried, beating a hasty retreat. 
For most players, the energy of the game had changed: 
Instead of sitting atop a big fat snowball of abundance, they 
were being chased downhill by snowballing mathematics. 
A surprising number of people, however, didn’t see things 
this way. Yes, some inexplicable and malignant force had 
somehow sabotaged the infinity process, but the forces of 
good would prevail. Extreme measures were taken. No 
Strings Attached passed around a couple of baseball caps 
filled with “prosperity quarters,” hypothesizing that a condi- 
tioned prejudice against easy money was at the root of the 
trouble. 
A tougher tactic was adopted by one of the Gelt Sisters, 
who made an impassioned speech about how pedantic and 
artificial the workshop theme had become. “Back when this 
was the Airplane, it was fun!” she cried. “I don’t want to be 
part of a psychotherapy process! I want money, and I want 
to play the game!” 
“Will you listen to what’s happening here?” The Swed- 
ish accent was more than familiar. All eyes turned toward a 
red-faced Blue Pearl. “I mean, really listen! Now I’ve been 
in this game for a month, and I am really annoyed. Did you 
come here to discuss if this was an airplane or a workshop?” 
There was a delightful conflict of interests here. While 
these confrontations with doubt, greed, and angst actually 
made the infinity process a workshop of sorts, they did little 
to encourage first-timers to join up. Several new recruits 
watched uneasily from behind a sofa, as the student who 
brought them grinned sheepishly. 
Throughout these exchanges, a ruddy-cheeked woman 
in a red muumuu Sat calmly at the rear of the large living 
room, cradling an enormous drum. Returning to the theme of 
increasing the positive energy flow, a facilitator reverently 
introduced this woman as a feminist shaman, who would 
now offer the group a powerful prosperity chant. 
Everyone closed their eyes. The strong beats of the drum 
pounded through the crowded room, and the medicine 
woman began to sing: 
“One! One! One! One! One! One! One! One! 
Love! Love! Love! Love! Love! Love! Love! Love! 
One love! One love! One love! One love! 
Love one! Love one! Love one! Love one! 
God is money in action!” 
achina chuckled obliquely, holding the telephone out 
of the reach of her thirteen-month-old daughter. “I 
don’t see any goddess work in this at all,” she said. 
“At every meeting there are new rationalizations; a 
new level of deception for what is a wounding situation.” 
Kachina had gotten into the Berkeley game a month ago, 
4] 
