started 
spiritualism 
in 1848. From 
left to right: Leah, 
Kate, and Margaret Fox. 
The practice of “spiritualism,” or communication with 
entities—usually dead relatives, friends, and “spirit 
guides” —through “mediums” (channels), became so 
popular in the nineteenth century that it eventually re- 
sulted in the formation of an influential new religion, the 
remnants of which still exist today. 
Divided Consciousness 
Though enigmatic phenomena usually associated with the 
occult (past-life regression, possession, channeling, automatic 
writing, visions, etc.) have been ignored by most psycholo- 
gists, there has been scientific inquiry into these areas. 
Di- 
vided Consciousness, written by Stanford University professor 
emeritus Ernest Hilgard, describes some of the very best re- 
search that’s been done. 
Hilgard’s interest is the subdivision of mental function- 
ing—how the mind carries on numerous tasks simultaneously, 
and how it shifts attention between them or even carries out 
complex tasks without any conscious attention at all. Using 
hypnosis as their primary tool, Hilgard and other researchers 
have been able to easily induce automatisms like automatic 
writing in order to communicate directly to dissociated por- 
tions of the mind, which often exactly resemble the chan- 
neled entities of modern occultists. 
The phenomena they’ve 
discovered are all the more incredible because they are indis- 
putably real. 
| got far more thrills per page from Divided Consciousness 
than from all the popular channeling books combined. 
It’s an 
authoritative tour of the curious states of consciousness asso- 
ciated with possession and mediumship, dreams, imagination 
and creativity, multiple personalities, age regression, amne- 
sia, and psychosomatic disorders like hysterical blindness and 
paralysis. 
The implicit message is that there’s far more going 
on in the unconscious portions of our minds—far more per- 
ceiving, remembering, processing, fantasizing—than we give 
ourselves credit for. 
—T.S. 
38 
Most American spiritualists trace the origin of their 
movement to the Fox sisters of Hydesville, New York. In 
1848, the Fox family began to hear mysterious rapping 
noises in their home, and soon 12-year-old Kate began to 
“communicate” with the sounds. Kate, along with her sis- 
ters Margaret, 9, and Leah, 23, devised a code by which 
the rapping designated the letters of the alphabet, and the 
source identified itself: “Mr. Splitfoot,” a spirit entity. 
News of the Fox sisters spread far and wide, and soon 
thousands were attending the sisters' seances to seek the 
spirit’s advice. Following the Fox's lead, many more 
“mediums” appeared in Europe and North America, 
through which spirits communicated by automatic speak- 
ing rather than rapping. 
Spiritualism peaked in popularity between 1880 and 
1920, when, with the help of spirit mediums, hundreds of 
thousands of Westerners visited with their departed 
friends and relatives and received the advice of a wide va- 
riety of spirit “guides.” The wife of President Lincoln 
even invited mediums into the White House, one of 
whom, Nettie Colburn, claimed that her spirit guides in- 
fluenced Lincoln's decisions about the timing of the 
Emancipation Proclamation and his visit to the Civil War 
front lines at Fredericksburg. Thousands of spiritualist 
churches were formed, and many have survived to this 
day, united in umbrella organizations like the National 
Spiritualist Association of Churches in Chicago, the Inter- 
national General Assembly of Spiritualists in Buffalo, and 
the General Assembly of Spiritualists in New York. 
On October 21, 1888, forty years after the Fox sisters 
produced their first “spirit rappings,” Margaret Fox con- 
fessed that it had all been a put-on. Writing in the New 
York World, she revealed that the “rappings” had begun as 
e 
The instructor was conducting a classroom demonstration 
of hypnotical deafness. 
The subject of the demonstration was 
a blind student, experienced in hypnosis, who had volunteered 
to serve; his blindness was not related to the demonstration, 
except that any visual cues were eliminated. 
After the induc- 
tion of hypnosis, he was given a suggestion that, at the count 
of three, he would become completely deaf to all sounds. 
His 
hearing would be restored to normal when the instructor’s 
hand was placed on his right shoulder. To be both blind and 
deaf would have been a frightening experience for the subject 
had he not known that his deafness was quite temporary. 
Loud sounds were then made close to the subject’s head by 
banging together some large wooden blocks. There was no 
sign of any reaction; none was expected because the subject, 
in a previous demonstration, had shown a lack of responsive- 
ness to the shots of a starter's pistol. He was also com- 
pletely unresponsive to any questions asked of him while he 
was hypnotically deaf. 
One student in the class questioned whether “some part” 
of the subject might be aware of what was going on. After all, 
there was nothing wrong with his ears. The instructor agreed 
to test this by a method related to interrogation practices 
used by clinical hypnotists. He addressed the hypnotically 
deaf subject in a quiet voice, “As you know, there are parts of 
our nervous system that carry on activities that occur out of 
awareness, of which control of the circulation of the blood, or 
the digestive processes, are the most familiar. 
However, 
there may be intellectual processes also of which we are un- 
aware, such as those that find expression in night dreams. 
Al- 
though you are hypnotically deaf, perhaps there is some part 
