L.A. of designer clothes and celebrity name-dropping. 
She presents herself as an art dealer, which leads the as- 
tute reader to some curious conclusions. Art dealers— 
good ones, at least—normally are obsessively concerned 
with the origins and dating of what they sell: “prove- 
nance,” they call it. Andrews, who has the annoying habit 
in Medicine Woman, her first book, of constantly drop- 
ping the names of just which trendy restaurant or gallery 
she visited last, is started on the quest for her Indian sha- 
man-teacher by a seemingly paranormal vision of an In- 
dian wedding basket. This is a southwestern American ar- 
tifact: she goes looking for it in Manitoba, but what the 
heck, this is only the beginning. 
Her teacher will turn out to be a Cree woman named 
Agnes Whistling Elk, who lives on an unspecified Indian 
reserve. She doesn’t travel much, but she sprinkles her 
conversation with terms like the Hopi-language “kat- 
china.” Maybe just Pan-Indianism at work. She has a 
“thick accent,” but speaks like an educated person. That 
is no marvel; what is marvelous is her ability in later 
books to turn up on other continents—just when Lynn is 
arriving there herself. 
That initial vision of the basket shakes Andrews up 
considerably, but she recovers after visiting the nearest 
Elizabeth Arden salon. Later, at a Bel Air dinner party 
amid rich oilmen and bankers, she is encouraged on her 
quest by the controversial Cheyenne author Hyemeyohsts 
Storm. 
“He was definitely Dakota or Montana,” Andrews 
writes offhandedly. No wonder her Crees speak Hopi: 
“provenance” is not this dealer’s strong point. (Later, she 
will visit modern Mayans who teach her about Aztec dei- 
ties—only a few hundred miles, three centuries, and a dif- 
ferent culture away.) 
Storm sends her off to that Manitoba reserve, where 
she asks herself the question all seekers ask: “I wondered 
if I had the right clothing. I was wearing Sasson jeans, 
boots, and a khaki jacket from Kerr’s.”” 
Of course, during her apprenticeship with Agnes (and 
with Ruby Plenty Chiefs, who neatly parallels Casta- 
neda’s Don Genaro as the more enigmatic of a pair of 
teachers), she runs afoul of a rival sorcerer. He is Red 
Dog, a white man living on the reserve, and he has two 
Indian apprentices. One night they attack her. 
Do they battle on the astral plane? Do they slip funny 
herbs into her soup? No, they are far craftier. Lynn re- 
turns to the cabin from a bugless outing and finds: “My 
Gucci bag lay open on the floor with the lining ripped out. 
Credit cards and money were strewn everywhere. Even 
my makeup case was missing.” 
Eventually Red Dog is defeated. And defeated. And 
defeated. In every book Red Dog comes back and is de- 
3 De Mille, The Don Juan Papers, p. 17. 
“Joan McIntyre. “Women Remembering.” Gnosis, Spring 1988, 
pp. 21-22. (See review, p. 30.) 
> Jaguar Woman, p. 120. 
6 Beth Ann Krier. “The Shaman of Beverly Hills.” Los Angeles 
Times, January 6, 1988. 
7Medicine Woman, p. 21. 
feated. I think he must be hopelessly in love; there can be 
no other explanation. Unless, of course, the whole thing 
is made up. 
iscussing Castaneda, Richard de Mille distin- 
guishes between two types of truth, “validity” 
and "authenticity.” Validity is good enough for 
the true believers and for broad-spectrum “spiri- 
tual” magazines like New Age, where a reviewer wrote of 
Castaneda, “He may be lying, but what he says is true.” 
The true believer who has bought all the books, listened 
to the tapes, and forked out more money for a lecture 
from the Great White Shaman might ponder de Mille’s 
thought that “An observer who cannot be trusted to tell us 
where and how he got his information cannot be trusted to 
preserve the integrity of that information either.” 
After I reviewed some of Andrews’ and Castaneda’s 
newest works in Gnosis magazine and discussed their fic- 
tional elements, in came a predictable letter from a reader 
who asked, “Wouldn’t it be wiser to examine the specific 
effects a particular piece of literature has on the reader’s 
consciousness than whether it is fantasy or reality? . 
. 
. 
Whatever anyone can imagine is considered to be as real 
as rain. Therefore, even if Castaneda and Andrews pro- 
duced ‘obvious fantasies,’ they are still in keeping with 
shamanic realities.” And so on. 
Cs 
Lynn Andrews uses Tibetan bells to administer "spiritual counseling” in 
her Beverly Hills home. Cost: $150 per hour. 
©1987 
Los 
Angeles 
Times 
