dials to indicate the results of its internal calculations 
. 
. 
. In 
short, this was a mechanical computer, and a complex one at 
that. 
Internal evidence also shows that it was a contemporary 
machine definitely made for everyday use, and not a treasure 
from some bygone age. We are forced to the conclusion that it 
pays tribute to a tradition of highly advanced technology in 
Greece 
. 
. 
. But if there was a tradition of an advanced tech- 
nology in the ancient world, it did not penetrate into Western 
Christendom.” 
—Encyclopedia of the Strange 
e 
In France, early in 1856, workmen were blasting a tunnel 
through solid stone as part of the Saint-Dizier to Nancy railway. 
While they were breaking a large boulder, 
a monstrous form 
emerged from a cavity in it, shook its wings feebly and died with a 
hoarse cry. 
It was about the size of a large goose, with a hideous 
head and sharp teeth. 
Its four long legs were joined by a mem- 
brane and terminated in long and crooked talons; its body was a 
livid black; its skin thick and oily. This living fossil was taken to 
the town of Gray, where a naturalist, ‘versed in palaeontology, 
immediately recognized it as belonging to the genus [sic] Ptero- 
dactylus anas’. The stone was ‘lias’ (Jurassic limestone), which 
accords with the era of these creatures, and the rock cavity 
formed an ‘exact hollow mould of its body, which indicates that it 
was completely enveloped with the sedimentary deposit.’ 
Our 
source is the //lustrated London News, 9 February 1856, which 
quoted the original account in the Presse grayloise—and knowing 
Ball lightning can pass through windows, then exit through the door 
without doing damage. A storm in Saiagnac, France, in September 1845 
produced this phenomenon. 
—Mysteries of the Unexplained 
the way embarrassing evidence has of getting ‘lost’, we would be 
surprised if any other record exists. 
—Phenomena 
e 
In 1926, an elderly Anglo-American caused a sensation with 
the publication of his first book, The Lost Continent of Mu. \n this 
remarkable treatise, Colonel James Churchward claimed to have 
found irrefutable evidence linking the biblical Garden of Eden to 
the legendary sunken Pacific continent of Mu. 
Churchward wrote that an old Asian priest had taught him to 
translate the primordial Muvian language, inscribed on certain 
tablets in India and Mexico. These tablets confirmed that Mu had 
been the fountainhead of civilization, predating even Atlantis. 
Several races of early humans had sprung up there, sharing the 
country with fauna ranging from brilliant butterflies to masto- 
constr 
Unfortunately, Churchward reported, this idyllic land rested on 
a foundation of gas-filled caves. The gas exploded in a great 
cataclysm 12,000 years ago, and Mu sank beneath the waves. 
The lucky survivors who escaped to Muvian colonies around the 
world later inscribed the tablets that Churchward claimed to have 
deciphered. 
No such accounts have ever been found by others, nor have 
geologists discovered any trace of a sunken Pacific continent. 
But this has not deterred Churchward’s readers: 
His first and 
subsequent books on Mu remained in print well into the 1960s. 
—Mysteries of the Unknown 
e 
In the southwestern corner of Pennsylvania, remains have 
been reported of large humanoid skeletons; local Indian legends 
describe these creatures with considerable precision. Over the 
years UFO flaps have passed through or concentrated near these 
areas and in 1973 an outbreak of ten-foot-tall humanoid sightings 
was recorded. Certain areas of New York state have been typified 
by repeated reports over centuries of luminous lights, non-human 
creatures, and rashes of Fortean events. Along the banks of the 
Mississippi River, bones remain of prehistoric animals; petro- 
glyphs of these creatures exist along those same banks. There 
are reports by early explorers that strange flying creatures were 
seen in a bright day. Today, centuries later, people still report ob- 
servations of unusual and unclassified creatures. 
These kinds of data have prompted many theorists in the 
area of borderline phenomena to postulate various forms of the 
repeated or recurrent space theory. Essential to this concept is 
that unusual events of different categories recur in the same spa- 
tial area over time. —Space-Time Transients and Unusual Events| 
Phenomena 
A Book of Wonders 
John Michell and 
Robert J.M. Rickard 
Mysteries of the Unknown 
(20 volumes, including 
Mystic Places, The UFO 
Phenomenon, Psychic Powers) 
1977; 128 pp. 
$12.99 each 
OUT OF PRINT 
($15.98 each postpaid) from: 
Pantheon Books 
Time-Life Customer Service 
New York, NY 
1450 East Parham Rd. 
Richmond, VA 23280 
800/621-7026 
84 
Mysteries of the 
Unexplained 
The Editors of 
Reader’s Digest 
1982; 320 pp. 
$19.95 
($22.93 postpaid) from: 
Reader’s Digest 
Attn: Order Entry 
Pleasantville, NY 10570 
Space-Time Transients 
and Unusual Events 
Michael A. Persinger 
and G,F. Lafreniere 
1977; 224 pp. 
$20.95 
($22.93 postpaid) from: 
Reader's Digest 
Attn: Order Entry 
Pleasantville, NY 10570 
n
