to me that these monkeys are clever creatures. 
It suggests to Watson that one monkey was 
clever and that the paranormal took care of 
the rest. A second neglected explanation is 
natural diffusion. And indeed Kawai reports 
that in 1960 a potato washer named “Jugo” 
swam from Koshima to the island on which 
the Takasakiyama troop lives. Jugo returned in 
1964. Watson does not mention this. The 
Japanese monkeys are known to be both clever 
and mobile, and either characteristic might ex- 
plain the interisland spread of potato washing. 
Watson ignores both explanations, preferring 
to invent a new paranormal power. 
3. Inflation of the miracle: As myths get 
passed along, everyone puffs them up a bit. 
The following two examples come from second- 
generation commentaries that quote extensively 
from Watson. Nevertheless, even Watson’s 
claims are beginning to bulge. First, the prima- 
tologists’ reports had mentioned that only a 
few isolated cases of off-Koshima potato wash- 
ing were observed. Watson reports this as the 
habit’s having “appeared spontaneously . 
. 
. in 
colonies on other islands.” Not actually false, 
since the few individuals were indeed in other 
colonies (though only individuals and not 
whole colonies adopted the behavior). Following 
Watson, Ken Keyes reports that, after the hun- 
dredth Koshima monkey, “colonies of monkeys 
on other islands . 
. 
. began washing their sweet 
potatoes!”’ From Keyes, one gets the image of 
spontaneous mass orgies of spud dunking. A 
second example: Regarding the primatologists’ 
attitudes toward the events of 1958, Watson 
reports only that they are “still not quite sure 
what happened.” But the primatological con- 
fusion quickly grows, for Science Digest 
reports “a mystery which has stumped scien- 
tists for nearly a quarter of a century.” In 
these two particular cases, Watson’s own state- 
ments are at least modest. They’re not what 
one would call accurate, but not exorbitantly 
false either. By the second generation, we find 
that “not quite sure what happened” hecomes 
From Keyes 
One gets the 
image of 
spontaneous 
mass orgies of 
spud-dunking. 
“stumped for nearly a quarter of a century,” 
and the habit that appeared in individuals 
within colonies of monkeys becomes a habit of 
colonies of monkeys. Please keep in mind that 
the second generation relies on/y on Watson 
for its information; even Watson’s none-too- 
accurate report has been distorted — and not, 
needless to say, in the direction of accuracy. 
4. The paranormal validates the paranormal: 
The validity of one supernatural report is 
strengthened by its consistency with other such 
reports. Watson’s commentators show how this 
works. Keyes supports the Hundredth Monkey 
Phenomenon by its consistency with J. B. 
Rhine’s work at Duke, which “demonstrated” 
telepathy between individual humans. “‘We now 
know that the strength of this extrasensory 
communication can be amplified to a power- 
fully effective level when the consciousness of 
the ‘hundredth person’ is added.” Elda 
Hartley’s film The Hundredth Monkey invokes 
Edgar Cayce. And in a remarkable feat of 
group consciousness, four of the five secon- 
dary sources emphasize the similarities between 
Watson’s Hundredth Monkey Phenomenon 
and Rupert Sheldrake’s notion of the “mor- 
phogenetic field” (a mysterious patterning 
field generated by a natural system that 
organizes subsequent, similar systems). The 
spontaneous recognition of the similarities be- 
tween Watson and Sheldrake seems to have 
leaped the natural boundaries between the four 
publications! Now there’s a miracle! (Surely in- 
dependent invention or natural diffusion 
couldn’t account for such a coincidence.) 
Conclusions 
I must admit sympathy for some of the 
secondary sources on the Hundredth Monkey 
Phenomenon. This feeling comes from the 
purpose for which the phenomenon was cited. 
Ken Keyes’ book uses the phenomenon as a 
theme, but the real topic of the book is nuclear 
disarmament. Arthur Stein’s article in the 
179 
