and photographers, while they are not formally connected 
with the tabloids, know that they can easily sell a juicy 
story or photograph to a tabloid. And any individual who 
contacts a tabloid reporter with a lead for a story may be 
able to get a cash payment. 
Following are comments on six widely available tab- 
loids. These remarks may seem to err on the side of char- 
ity; however, it should be kept in mind that while critics 
may fault the tabloids for their sensationalism and extreme 
simplicity (reporters at one tabloid are told not to write any- 
thing that exceeds a fifth-grade reading level), these char- 
acteristics are the ones that endear the tabloids to millions 
of people. 
National Enquirer 
The National Enquirer, founded by William Randolph Hearst, 
was first published in 1926 with the title New York Enquirer. In 
1952 it was purchased by current owner Generoso Pope, Jr., for 
$75,000, reportedly with the help of gangster Frank Costello. 
Since then Pope has presided over the Enquirer’s growth into the 
nation’s most popular and notorious supermarket tabloid. Much 
of its current success is due to Pope’s move in the early 1970s 
to establish his publication in the middle-class magazine market 
by placing the Enquirer in grocery store display racks across the 
country. Aside from this circulation strategy, the Enquirer culti- 
vates its editorial content by paying a large army of reporters and 
editors the highest salaries in the tabloid field. While this practice 
may not result in writing that always measures up to the journalis- 
tic standards of a magazine such as People, it does allow the 
Enquirer to cover a broad range of topics, and it enables timely 
responses to events that often result in news scoops. For ex- 
ample, when Elvis Presley died in 1977, scores of Enquirer re- 
porters were dispatched to Memphis. Enquirer money flowed 
freely in the town. One result was that a Presley relative photo- 
graphed Elvis in his casket and sold the picture to the Enquirer. 
The issue with this picture on the cover sold the most copies ever 
of the Enquirer, 6.7 million. 
Such sensationalistic tactics may repel some people, but 
sensationalism is the area in which the Enquirer most clearly ex- 
cels. Millions of readers rely on the Enquirer to let them in on the 
details of the week’s hot topics, and the Enquirer rarely lets them 
down. 
Star 
The Star, founded and owned by Australian publishing mag- 
nate Rupert Murdoch, is a sister publication of The Times of Lon- 
don and numerous other newspapers and magazines owned by 
Murdoch. While the Star does not possess either the renown or 
the pretensions of The Times, it runs a respectable second in 
tabloid circulation to the National Enquirer. In fact, the appear- 
ance of the Star, with its color pictures, on the tabloid publishing 
scene in the 1970s prodded the Enquirer to adopt color and re- 
vamp its graphic design. The Star’s formula is largely the same 
as that of the Enquirer, with the usual mix of celebrity stories and 
service features. An article playing up a spat between a television 
actress and her country singer husband coexists in one issue 
with a political analysis column. Other features include gossip col- 
umns, advice on personal finance, and recipes for dishes such as 
“Presidential Popcorn” (just add jellybeans). 
Just tell the story, make the point, and get out with a nice, 
snappy ending, Globe editors urge prospective writers. Owned by 
100 
Canadian publisher Michael Rosenbloom, who also publishes the 
tabloids National Examiner and Sun, the Globe’s format remains 
true to this editorial policy. As with all of the tabloids, celebrity 
stories and interviews, especially those revealing supposed scan- 
dals and embarrassments, are present in the Globe (previously 
titled Midnight Globe and Midnight). One such recent Globe ar- 
ticle is “Dark Secrets of the Crystal Cathedral,” in which the for- 
mer daughter-in-law of a prominent television preacher reveals 
some of the more unflattering aspects of the video cleric’s ca- 
reer. Stories describing unusual people and phenomena are also 
staples in the Globe. For example, readers can learn of the “Mir- 
acle Chair That Makes Women Pregnant,” a piece of eighteenth- 
century furniture in the custody of a group of nuns in Naples. 
In addition to these types of articles, the Globe also contains 
regular features, including special gossip columns covering Holly- 
wood personalities and television soap opera peformers. Other 
recurring features include medical advice and news, how-to ar- 
ticles, and inspirational essays. And of course the Globe occa- 
sionally prints psychics’ predictions, including this startling revela- 
tion: “Because of trauma, Michael Jackson will lose all his hair 
and will drop out of public sight while it regrows.” 
National Examiner 
The National Examiner, like its sister publications, Globe and 
Sun, has sensationalism on almost every page. Articles on celeb- 
rities and unusual people and events fill each issue. Readers ex- 
pect to be astounded by headlines like “'Man-Boy’ Fathers a 
Child—at Age 7: Doctors Bewildered by Incredible Case History,” 
and “Husband Burns Wife Alive... Because She Was Pregnant 
and Not Rich Enough.” Social phenomena are not exempt from 
the National Examiner’s sensationalism; for example, the head- 
line of one article claims that “Women’s Lib Causes Wife-Beat- 
ing.” (The article does contain some useful information on 
spouse abuse, but it also states that efforts to pass the Equal 
Rights Amendment have driven husbands to violence against their 
wives.) 
The Sun offers a predictable array of stories and pictures cov- 
ering bizarre events and famous personages. Readers of the Sun 
expect such stories as “He’s America’s Youngest Dad at Age 13” 
and “Caged! 2 Women Keep Rapist Prisoner for Five Years as 
Love Slave.” Some of the articles show a semblance of redeem- 
ing value. For example, while the article “Drunk Doctors Operate 
In Our Hospitals” is presented in a sensationalistic manner, it 
does alert readers to the problem of alcohol and drug abuse 
among doctors and nurses. Still, there is no question that the 
majority of articles appearing in the Sun are lacking in such re- 
deeming value. “Strange Psychic Power of Cabbage Patch Dolls,” 
a story recounting situations in which telepathic messages from 
the popular playthings saved human lives and averted tragedies, 
is more typical of the Sun’s offerings. 
Weekly World News 
This tabloid is a reminder of the sleazy National Enquirer of 
the old days. It is, in fact, owned by Enquirer publisher Generoso 
Pope, Jr. It is the only tabloid reviewed here that is printed en- 
tirely in black and white, and its articles and pictures look like re- 
jects from the Enquirer: “Ape Gives Birth to Human Baby,” “Two- 
Headed Man Dies at Age 23.” In addition to these and other sto- 
ries celebrating the offbeat, there are several regular feature col- 
umns, including Countessa Sophia Sabak’s “Weekly Horoscope,” 
and “Dear Dotti,” an advice column in which readers seek solu- 
tions to emotional dilemmas, and Dotti responds with straightfor- 
ward answers such as “Dump him” and “Take a cold shower.” 
# 
