We can only hope that 
Santa Claus and the 
Hundredth Monkey are 
not our best chances 
to avoid nuclear war. 
Phoenix Journal of Transpersonal Anthropology 
and (to a lesser extent) the Hartley film are in- 
spired by Keyes’ hope that the Hundredth 
Monkey Phenomenon may help prevent 
nuclear war. The message is that “you may be 
the Hundredth Monkey” whose contribution 
to the collective consciousness turns the world 
away from nuclear holocaust. It is hard to find 
fault in this motive. For these very same 
reasons, one couldn’t fault the motives of a 
child who wrote to Santa Claus requesting 
world nuclear disarmament as a Christmas 
present. We can only hope that Santa Claus 
and the Hundredth Monkey are not our best 
chances to avoid nuclear war. 
Watson’s primary concern is not prevention of 
war but sheer love of the paranormal. His 
book begins with a description of a child who, 
before Watson’s own eyes, and with a “short 
implosive sound, very soft, like a cork being 
drawn in the dark,” psychically turned a tennis 
ball inside out — fuzz side in, rubber side out 
— without losing air pressure. Just after the 
Hundredth Monkey discussion, Watson makes 
a revealing point. He quotes with approval a 
statement attributed to Lawrence Blair: ““When 
a myth is shared by large numbers of people, it 
becomes a reality.” This sort of relativist 
epistemology is not unusual in New Age 
thought. I would express Blair’s thought some- 
what differently: ““Convince enough people of 
a lie, and it becomes the truth.” I suggest that 
someone who accepts this view of truth is not 
to be trusted as a source of knowledge. He 
may, of course, be a marvelous source of fan- 
tasy, rumor, and pseudoscientific best-sellers. 
I prefer epistemological realism to this sort 
of relativism. Truth is not dependent on the 
numbers of believers or on the frequency of 
published repetition. My preferred epistemology 
can be expressed simply: Facts are facts. There 
is no Hundredth Monkey Phenomenon. 
a 
180 
Watson 
Responds. ; 
find the cavils of self-appointed 
committees for the supression of curiosity 
very tedious. 
And I am deeply suspicious of those who feel 
the need to set themselves up as defenders of 
the scientific faith. 
But I have to say that I admire Ron Amundson. 
His analysis of the Hundredth Monkey Pheno- 
menon is lucid, amusing and refreshingly free 
of the emotional dismissals that characterize 
much of the usual output of the Committee 
for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of 
the Paranormal. 
Lyall Watson, the originator of the Hundredth Monkey 
story, is a hard man to track down. As I worked to lo- 
cate him so that he could respond to Ron Amundson’ s 
critique, I became increasingly intrigued by what I 
learned secondhand of this mysterious and elusive char- 
acter. Aside from authoring a series of best-selling 
books on the occult and the paranormal (Supernature, 
Lifetide, Gifts of Unknown Things), he is also a BBC 
television producer, an inveterate world traveler, the 
Seychelles representative to the International Whaling 
Commission (where he is an influential campaigner 
against commercial whaling), and the author of the 
definitive Sea Guide to Whales of the World, a book 
based on his ten years of cetacean study aboard the MS 
Lindblad Explorer. He holds degrees in anthropology, 
ethology, and marine biology. His newest books are 
Dreams of Dragons and The Water Planet. Clearly, 
Watson is not your typical occult theory-monger. Need- 
less to say, I finally got hold of Lyall Watson, and found 
him quite happy to respond to Amundson’ s analysis of 
his monkey tale. As he put it, “I enjoyed Amundson’ s 
argument and I have tried to reply in similar good 
humor.” 
—T'S. 
