Countdown to the Millenium 
by Stanley Young 
thors such as Hal Lindsey, whose book The Late Great 
Planet Earth shot to the top of the best seller list and is a 
standard recounting of the Christian conception of the the 
End Times, Kaseman’s remark may still be true, at least 
for many fundamentalist Christians in America today. 
The Christian scenario for Armageddon is set forth 
most forcefully in The Book of Revelation. Revelation 
doesn’t really add anything new to the basic End Times 
blueprint that the other Biblical books and Apocrypha 
have laid out, but what it does say it spouts in Techni- 
color. For those of you who need a “sense of an ending,” 
this tome will give you a surfeit; this is the book that de- 
fined Armageddon. It is definitely worth a read even if 
most of it is obscure beyond the lyrics of Dylan. 
The Book of Revelation is the American International 
Pictures version of the End: See the book with seven 
seals, each one betokening a new set of disasters! 
Expe- 
rience angels and devils battling amidst flashes of light- 
ning and earthquakes! Fear the monster with seven heads 
and ten horns, carrying a woman drunk with the blood of 
saints! Cower as a beast with horns like a lamb speaks 
like a dragon! The Book of Revelation is a veritable ce- 
lestial sideshow, the summa of apocalyptic writing, full of 
symbolism, allusion, hope, and redemption. Above all, 
Revelation is an anthem of redemption: Christ is coming 
soon; He is coming quickly. “Do not seal up the words of 
the prophecy of this book for the time is near.” 
The time is near; the End is at hand. This is the mes- 
sage that all millennial movements feed upon. Frank Ker- 
mode, in his classic study The Sense of an Ending, puts it 
clearly: “The great majority of interpretations of Apoca- 
lypse assume that the end is pretty near. Consequently the 
historical allegory is always having to be revised: time 
discredits it. And this is important. The apocalypse can 
be disconfirmed without being discredited. This is part of 
its extraordinary resilience.” 
Early Christians felt they were living at the end of 
time. As time wore on and Christ failed to reappear, how- 
ever, this belief was not discredited. Instead, the date of 
His coming was repeatedly shifted, until the certainty of 
imminent salvation became a vague “sometime in the fu- 
ture.” This vagueness became more specific, however, as 
the year 1000 a.p. rolled around. Surely the start of the 
new millennium was to be the great date of His Second 
Coming at last. Signs and portents were eagerly sought 
by Christians everywhere, and there was even a brief en- 
tente between Emperor Otto III and Pope Sylvester II. In 
fact, the Emperor’s coronation robe had scenes from the 
Book of Revelation embroidered onto it. All of Christen- 
dom threw a party—but Christ never showed up. 
No problem. Some quick refiguring indicated that His 
Coming should have been dated from the Ascension, not 
the Nativity. The year 1033 was also a bust, however; but 
the habit of predicting the Second Coming had entered 
into the fabric of Western Culture, and it’s been with us 
ever since. 
Joachim of Flore, a Cistercian monk of the twelfth 
century, was a major figure in apocalypticism. He devel- 
oped a scheme of distinctive “ages” (saeclora) in history 
that lead, in linear fashion, to a cosmic conclusion. Being 
a good Christian, he divided history into three ages (after 
the Trinity), with the last epoch beginning, by way of 
some fancy arithmetic, in 1260 a.p. with the arrival of the 
Antichrist. Once again, Christ missed his appointment, 
but the concept of “ages” in human (that is, “secular’’) 
history, moving toward some sort of recognizable conclu- 
sion, entered forever into Western thought. People began 
to think of themselves as participants in an “age.” 
Certainly this was true of the newly formed United 
States of America. The fledgling nation even chose words 
saying as much on its Great Seal: “Novus Ordo Seclo- 
rum,” lifted from Vergil, means “A New Order of the 
Ages.” (Check your one-dollar bills for its location.) 
Even the most current buzzword, “New Age,” meant to 
indicate the thoroughly modern approach to living, is it- 
self a direct descendant of thirteenth-century Joachite his- 
toricism, and is simply the latest expression of a long line 
of generations who felt themselves to be at the end of one 
era and on the verge of another. 
Every few decades after Joachim someone would rise 
up and claim to have perceived the signs of the impending 
apocalypse. It happened like sporadic clockwork, and 
spotting the Antichrist—the being whose appearance her- 
alded the beginning of the End—became a Western preoc- 
cupation and sort of a historical parlor game. Candidates 
for the Antichrist ranged from Frederick II in the thir- 
teenth century to Napoleon Bonaparte in the eighteenth, 
with a few scattered Popes as suspects in between. Some- 
times natural events seemed to betoken the onset of the 
End Times, as happened in England in the late sixteenth 
century when the British witnessed several novas, includ- 
ing a spectacular example in Cassiopeia in 1572. When 
these portents were followed a few years later by a full 
solar eclipse, many were convinced that they were living 
“in the dregs of time” and that Judgment Day was at hand. 
At other times, when no celestial portents were seen and 
Antichrist-candidates hard to locate, scholars (including 
Newton) undertook exotic mathematical calculations to 
try to make the figures in the prophecies jibe with current 
events. 
Occasionally prophets of doom gained considerable 
followings and engendered mass movements. Five hun- 
9 
