by Joshua Hammer 
Photos by Randy Green 
No doubt the brave new day 
will come when direct electrical 
stimulation of the brain will be used 
to produce selected mental states. 
No more tiresome memorization or 
years of ascetic meditation; attain 
genius-level intellect or blissful 
nirvana with the flick of a switch. 
According to some, in fact, this day 
has already arrived. 
Joshua Hammer, a Los Angeles- 
based writer, began his investiga- 
tion of brain-building devices with- 
out any preconceptions, pro or con. 
Hammer, a former senior writer at 
People magazine, has written for 
Manhattan, Inc. and Esquire, spe- 
cializing in business and crime. 
This piece originally appeared in 
California magazine. 
—T.S. 
130 
had a problem. After four years of punching up airline schedules on 
her computer terminal and confronting an endless parade of harried 
customers, she felt “like my brain was going to explode.” Then 
Malott —a dabbler in a variety of New Age concepts from est to channeling— 
picked up a copy of the September 28, 1987, San Francisco Chronicle and 
read about a newly opened storefront clinic in Corte Madera that offered “A 
Quickie Tune-up for Marin Brains.” Proponents of the tune-up device claimed 
to achieve in forty-five minutes from technology what gurus take years to per- 
fect: heightened mental functioning through the meditative state. 
“Td had a hard time getting myself to meditate, and this seemed a perfect 
shortcut,” Malott says. “The beep-beep-beeps, the sound of the ocean coming 
through my headphones just hypnotized me. The colors I saw through my 
goggles were so vibrant—I loved them; I could feel them going right through 
my body.” 
Linda Jones (a pseudonym), a West Hollywood resident who worked as a 
secretary in a film studio, was tormented by feelings of insecurity and disdain 
for the drudgery of her job. Then she heard about Robert Monroe, an “ex- 
plorer” of human consciousness and potential. Subscribing to the notion that 
the typical human being uses only one brain hemisphere, Monroe concocted a 
machine called the Hemi-Sync Synthesizer to bring the two halves into har- 
monic convergence. Suddenly concentrating on tasks, she says, with both her 
analytical left brain and her intuitive right brain humming together, Jones felt a 
Randy GreeniOr 
ANCY MALOTT, a former travel agent from Santa Rosa, California, 
