ing. As with every aspect of the Newman case, there was 
much wrangling, but NBS finally tested the device in 
mid-1986. They measured its efficiency as 27 percent to 
67 percent, depending upon the load and other factors. 
Conventional DC motors commonly achieve 80 percent 
efficiency, so this is less than impressive. 
Newman responded that NBS deliberately rigged the 
test to make his invention look bad. In December 1986, 
Newman and the Patent Office were back in court. By 
this time, about thirty scientists and engineers had en- 
dorsed the Newman Energy Machine, most notably physi- 
cist Roger Hastings, manager of the Superconductive 
Electronics Technology Center for Unisys in St. Paul. 
Hastings and two engineers testified in Newman’s favor. 
The NBS expert was steadfast in defending the NBS tests. 
In March 1988, Judge Jackson decided in favor of the Pat- 
ent Office. 
Joseph Newman did not wait for the court’s decision 
to express his general displeasure with the proceedings. 
In 1987 press releases regarding his case, he called Judge 
Jackson “a criminal of the worst kind,” accused the Patent 
Office of conspiracy, and made rather free use of terms 
like “fools,” “liars,” “hypocrites,” and “criminals.” New- 
man wanted the judge impeached, the Commissioner of 
Patents prosecuted, and (for good measure) Ronald Rea- 
gan impeached. To ensure that Truth and Justice prevail, 
Newman announced his candidacy for president on the 
Truth and Action Party ticket. 
The Patent Office calls Newman’s device a perpetual 
motion machine, but he insists it is not. Rather, the New- 
man Energy Machine converts mass to energy according 
to Einstein’s famous equation, 
E=MC’. In an updated 
(apparently 1987) press release, Newman wrote: 
I have persistently stated that this 100% conversion 
process was achieved by tapping into the basic building 
block of matter — the energy (gyroscopic particles) 
comprising a magnetic (electromagnetic) field. I have 
disclosed that this energy in a magnetic (electromag- 
netic) field was literally ‘a river of energy” that could 
be tapped for immediate benefit of humanity without 
pollution to the environment or the human race, would 
end hunger, would make space travel commonplace, and 
much more. Also this technology will do more to bring 
about “World Peace” than all the Kings, Queens, and 
politicians that have ever lived. 
Stating that gyroscopic particles and a conversion 
process exist and proving it are two different things. (If I 
state, dear reader, that you have a weightless, odorless, 
invisible vulture sitting on your left shoulder, you might 
demand further evidence.) The burden of proof is on 
Newman, and he has failed. As for his humanitarian sen- 
timents, they are right out of my Schadewald Gravity En- 
gine announcement, except that Newman has obviously 
no intention of putting the Newman Energy Machine into 
the public domain. 
Not surprisingly, Newman has supporters in Congress, 
and at least eleven bills have been introduced to force the 
Patent Office to grant him a patent. None have passed. 
And thus has our unbalanced wheel come full circle. 
Newman claims with Dr. Kenyon to tap a mysterious 
Perpetual Motion: The 
History of an Obsession 
Perpetual Motion 
The History of an Obsesssion 
W.J.G. Ord-Hume 
1980; 235 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s 
175 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10010 
800/221-7945 
If Robert Schadewald’s article leaves you thirsting for 
more, this book is your logical next choice. 
It is, in fact, the 
only objective book-length history of perpetual motion. Draw- 
ing on antique books and old periodicals, as well as obscure 
modern publications, Ord-Hume has reconstructed the untold 
history of perpetual motion from medieval times to the pres- 
ent. Using plenty of contemporary illustrations and photo- 
graphs, he describes overbalancing and other self-moving 
wheels, magnetic and steam contraptions, spongewheels, roll- 
ing-ball clocks, radium-powered devices, perpetual lamps, and 
other schemes. 
The stories of Keely, Garabed, and other col- 
orful inventors are told in detail. And, lest you think that all 
“perpetual motion” ideas have ended in failure, Ord-Hume de- 
scribes a number of successes(!), including a “perpetually” 
ringing bell and the marvelous perpetual clock of James Cox. 
(Neither of these inventions violates the three laws of thermo- 
dynamics, but you’ll have to read the book to find out how 
they work.) 
—T.S. 
° 
With the approval of all those present, excepting, no 
doubt, the exhibitor, [Robert] Fulton began knocking away 
some pieces of thin wood which appeared to be no part of the 
mechanism but to pass between the frame of the machine 
and the wall of the room and serve simply as supports to 
steady the device. These strips of wood concealed a catgut 
belt drive which passed through one of the pieces of wood and 
the frame of the machine to the head of the upright shaft of a 
principal wheel. The other end of the drive passed through 
the wall and along the floors of the second story to a back 
attic some yards from the room where the ‘perpetual motion’ 
was to be seen. 
Here Fulton found the real source of the 
power which turned Redheffer’s machine—an old man with a 
long beard who displayed all the signs of having been impri- 
soned in the room for a long, long time. The man had no no- 
tion what was happening and sat there on a stool gnawing a 
crust with one hand and turning the crank with the other. 
The crowd turned mob, demolished the perpetual motion 
machine and Redheffer fled, a stop having at last been put to 
his deception which had earned him a tidy fortune in Philadel- 
phia and New York. 
In Scharf 
and Westcott’s History of 
Philadelphia there is a repro- 
duction of the advertising cir- 
cular which Redheffer used to 
attract visitors to his exhibi- 
tion at Germantown, Philadel- 
phia. This reveals that the 
charlatan had the audacity to 
charge $5 admission for men, 
but allowed women to be 
admitted gratis. 
The perpetual chime set up by 
Singer in 1840 and still in 
operation today. Picture by 
courtesy of Dr. A.J. Croft of the 
Clarendon Laboratory, University 
of Oxford. 
