The preceding examples lead to the next guideline: 
Watch whether the field of study remains barren 
over time. 
In the end, the most telling argument against the 
Bates system, iridology, and zone therapy was not 
that they were founded by cranks or were based 
on spurious theories, but that they bore no fruit. 
The Bates exercises had every chance to succeed. 
Thousands of people “threw away their glasses’”’ 
and practiced the system religiously. Millions more 
gave it briefer tries. If palming, shifting, and swing- 
ing really could cure poor eyesight, glasses would 
be as obsolete now as horse-drawn carriages. 
As physicist Rolf M. Sinclair pointed out at an 
American Association for the Advancement of 
Science meeting in 1980 in San Francisco, one of 
the key distinctions between science and pseudo- 
science is that science changes rapidly. New ideas 
are quickly accepted once they are proven, and 
disproven ideas are likewise quickly rejected. Most 
of the focus of current research involves ideas less 
than ten to fifteen years old. In contrast, pseudo- 
science clutches doggedly at ideas for their own 
sake. “Astrology froze about two thousand years 
ago and simply hasn’t changed much,” Sinclair 
said. ““That unchanging character is what allows 
me to say astrology is a pseudoscience.”’ 
My father finally became inactive in the American 
Society for Psychical Research partly because no- 
thing ever seemed to lead anywhere. At home we 
have a shelf lined with issues of the Society’s Jour- 
nal, marching back through the decades. Unlike 
other scientific journals, it contains nothing that 
one can build upon. In essence, the Society is just 
where it began in 1885, and where its precursor, 
the London Society for Psychical Research, began 
before that. It has yet to demonstrate that psy- 
chic powers exist at all, much less learn anything 
about them. 
If someone making paranormal claims compares 
himself to Einstein, Galileo, or Pasteur, dismiss him 
right away. Real geniuses usually let their work 
speak for itself. If he believes he is being conspired 
against by the A.M.A., “orthodox oxen,” and 
“would-be scientists’ with “frozen beliefs’ and 
““hi-de-hi mathematics’’ (to quote George F. Gillette, 
discoverer of an incomprehensible something called 
the “spiral maximote’’), then you may safely ig- 
nore him. Paranoia is a frequent refuge of the 
incompetent. 
The crank usually works in isolation from everyone 
else in his field of study, making grand discoveries 
in his basement. Many paranormal movements can 
be traced back to such people — Kirlian photo- 
graphy, for instance. If you pump high-voltage 
electricity into anything it will emit glowing sparks, 
common knowledge to electrical workers and 
hobbyists for a century. It took a lone basement 
crank to declare that the sparks represent some 
sort of spiritual aura. In fact, Kirlian photography 
was subjected to rigorous testing by physicists 
John O. Pehek, Harry J. Kyler, and David L. Faust, 
who reported their findings in the October 15, 
1976, issue of Science. Their conclusion: The 
variations observed in Kirlian photographs are due 
solely to moisture on the surface of the body and 
not to mysterious “‘auras’’ or even necessarily to 
changes in mood or mental state. Nevertheless, 
television shows, magazines, and books (many by 
famous parapsychologists) continue to promote 
Kirlian photography as proof of the unknown. 
VON DANIKEN DEBUNKS VON DANIKEN 
In 1978, the PBS Nova television 
science program examined the 
claims of “ancient astronaut”’ 
theorist Erich Von Daniken, whose 
series of books beginning with 
Chariots of the Gods has sold a stun- 
ning 36 million copies. The Nova in- 
terviewer, pressing Von Daniken to 
confess that he had not really ex- 
plored an artifact-filled South 
American cave as he had claimed in 
Gold of the Gods, obtained the 
following admission: 
No that did not happen, but | think 
when somebody writes books in my 
style and in my sense, which are not 
scientific books, we call it in Ger- 
man “‘sachbucher.”’ It’s a kind of 
194 
popular book but it’s not science 
fiction, though all the facts do exist 
but with other interpretations. Then 
an author is allowed to use effects. 
So some little things like this are 
really not important because they 
do not touch the facts. They are 
simply stimulating the reader, and 
one is allowed to do this. 
Nonetheless, Von Daniken’s books 
are sold in America as “nonfiction.”’ 
As James Randi (the magician, ‘The 
Amazing Randi’’) points out in his 
book Flim Flam!: 
[Yon Daniken] at no point calls to 
our attention the miracle known as 
Chartres Cathedral, the Parthenon 
in Greece, or even Stonehenge — 
that most remarkable astronomical 
construction — because these 
wonders are European, built by people 
he expects to have the intelligence 
and ability to do such work. He can- 
not conceive of our brown and 
black brothers having the wit to 
conceive or the skill to build the 
great structures that they did leave 
behind. Instead, to satisfy what ap- 
pear to be his personal prejudices, 
he invents some sort of divine/extra- 
terrestrial/supernatural intervention 
that he maintains was necessary to 
enable the inferior races to put 
stone upon stone or place paint 
upon a Cave wall, 
—TS. 
