Megabrain 
Megabrain 
Michael Hutchison 
1986; 347 pp. 
$4.95 
($5.95 postpaid) from: 
Ballantine/Random House 
400 Hahn Road 
Westminster, MD 21157 
800/638-6460 
A gee-whiz reporter for Omni magazine travels around the 
country trying out various gizmos claimed to elicit altered 
states of awareness, looking for the action beyond biofeed- 
back. Most of the inventions he examines apply weak electri- 
cal currents to the skull. One machine is reputed to emit “love 
waves ”—frequencies that churn up cheery hormones in the 
user’s cortex. Do they work? Well, some of them induce 
changes in the brain's activity, and the literature Hutchison 
digs up on each device suggests that some may stimulate the 
production of neurotransmitter molecules (the appropriate 
ones?). His own direct experiences suggest that the contrap- 
tions, in general, tend toward instilling “alert relaxation.” 
Some would call that simply daydreaming or meditation. 
Too bad his reporting is so uncritical. On the other hand, 
he deserves attention for his heads-on experimentation. He 
also supplies manufacturers’ references for second opinions. 
This is the only comprehensive foray into the flaky world of do- 
your-own brain tuning, and so may be worth a look. 
—Kevin Kelly 
e 
Medical researcher Dr. Gene W. Brockopp, who has used 
the Synchro-Energizer extensively, puts it this way in a recent 
paper about the device: “Although it is mentioned in some of 
the promotional literature that research has been done on the 
synchro-energizer, no research reports are available. Anecdo- 
tal information on various individuals who have used the ma- 
chine is available but nothing even approaching the level of an 
adequate case study is available at the present time . 
. 
. To 
the author’s knowledge, there is no compiled base of theoreti- 
cal, experimental, or clinical data on the synchro-energizer.” 
To Gorges, such criticisms are simply too piddling to deal 
with. Of course there isn’t sufficient hard scientific evidence 
to support his claims—but studies like that take a lot of time 
and a lot of money. 
Let the machine speak for itself. 
It 
works! As he proudly told me, “I’ve always been a heretic and 
a rebel.” Painstaking research holds little interest for him, he 
said. “I’m interested in results!” When asked about the long- 
term effects of regular use of the Synchro-Energizer, Gorges 
cries, “Long-term effects? Long-term effects? Who knows 
about long-term effects? | don’t. Nobody knows about long- 
term effects. This is 
anew machine, a new technology. Even 
the doctor doesn’t know about long-term effects 
. 
. 
. It’s excit- 
ing to be a pioneer for science.” 
Joseph Light’s 
simple TENS 
(Transcutaneous 
Electrical Nerve 
Stimulation) de- 
vice is made from 
“about nineteen 
dollars’ worth of 
parts from Radio 
Shack.” Many us- 
ers report that at 
certain frequency 
settings, the in- 
strument can in- 
crease alertness 
and concentra- 
tion, and produce 
mild euphoria. 
136 
cusations. We’ll probably end up bringing suit against 
hers 
Perhaps nowhere is the business as rife with potential 
trouble as in the merchandising of TENS devices. Recent 
years have witnessed a rash of schemes involving the sale 
of black boxes promising everything from weight loss to 
addiction recovery, from the DocTronic Electro-Acupunc- 
ture Wand to Dr. Benefit’s Slim-Up. 
In Ventura County, California, a man named Evans 
Alex Rapsomanikis was scheduled for trial on fraud 
charges for allegedly selling 50,000 shares of stock in 
Electro-Biomorphic, a manufacturer of TENS-like de- 
vices that he promised would cure cancer. All this simply 
underscores the fact, says Dr. Jim Barquest, a biomedical 
engineer with the California Department of Health Ser- 
vices, “that nobody uses electricity in an approved ther- 
apeutic mode, except for electroshock. With TENS de- 
vices there’s even a chance of burns, chronic headaches, 
or permanent nerve damage.” $ 
What particularly galls scientists is the disreputable 
stain some of these hucksters are casting over legitimate 
cerebral research. Evidence suggests, says a California 
neurologist, that biofeedback machines such as the Mind 
Mirror that display brain-wave activity can be useful in 
teaching a person how to relax and may even help control 
epilepsy. “But progress in such areas is being greatly 
hampered by all these wild claims,” he says. “It’s very 
hard to get research funding or be taken seriously by one’s 
colleagues.” 
oes this mean all the claims made by brain- 
building gurus are false? Not necessarily, al- 
lows Dr. Richard Jed Wyatt of the National In- 
stitute of Mental Health. “There is always a 
Columbus or an Einstein working outside the main- 
stream,” he says. “But far more often there is somebody 
getting rich off the rest of us, augmenting his bank ac- 
count and producing medical disasters in his wake.” 
The doubts of respected neuroscientists such as Wyatt 
probably won’t make a great deal of difference to brain 
builders, however, since the machines appeal to a yearn- 
ing among human beings for novelty and self-improve- 
ment, and to the age-old desire of humankind to under- 
stand, harness, and manipulate the powers of the brain. 
From ancient experiments with psychotropic mushrooms 
on the Indian subcontinent to Sigmund Freud’s fasci- 
nation with cocaine, the drive to control the brain as func- 
tionally as we control other parts of the body is timeless, 
varying only as the philosophy and technology of each 
age differ. 
It seems only natural then that the 1980s would dish 
up its own version by merging two of the most vital forces 
of the last two decades—the transcendentalism of the six- 
ties and the high-tech orientation of the seventies, mixing 
our fascination with meditation and our faith in machines. 
Add to that the obsession of the eighties—making money 
—and a movement is born. Brain building as a science 
may not have arrived, but brain building as a pop phe- | 
nomenon will not depart until the last possible dollar has 
been made. 
