fact, they’re damning—but the potential payoff is deli- 
ciously seductive. All one has to do is bring in a couple of 
friends, who bring in acouple of their friends, and before you 
know it there’s $12,000 piled up on your futon—and, provid- 
ing the chain doesn’t break, on theirs. No doubt about it— 
when games like this begin, they move very fast indeed. At 
the time Icarus was introduced to the game, players were 
piloting out in a single, giddy evening. 
Icarus was a gambling man, and the chances seemed 
pretty damned good that he’d score handsomely on this 
eight-to-one bet. So he handed over his money and began 
what promised to be a no-sweat campaign to draw friends 
and associates into this lucrative game. After one week he 
reached the level of pilot and waited, adrenalin pumping, for 
the moment when he could bail. 
And waited .. 
. and waited. For just at that critical point, 
as Icarus stood poised to leap into the wild winds of wealth, 
two major Bay Area newspapers—the San Francisco 
Chronicle and the Oakland Tribune— published scathing 
reports about the Airplane Game and its dog-eat-dog mathe- 
matics. Consider: When Icarus and his seven fellow passen- 
gers rose to the level of pilot, eight new airplanes were 
created—each requiring eight new passengers to keep 
flying. For those 64 passengers to pilot out, 
512 more would 
have to join in. For all those new recruits ever to complete the 
game, another 4,096 people would have to come aboard. 
Even if this were possible, in order for them to win, 32,768 
more people would need to invest a total of $49,152,000. 
Yikes! 
Overnight, the game’s momentum faltered. “It’s been 
one of the most intense weeks of my life,” Icarus confessed 
when I first spoke to him. He was spending five to six hours 
a day on the phone, reassuring the fearful passengers on his 
airplane and bantering the odds with potential players. It had 
been hard enough when he only had to worry about himself; 
now he felt responsible for the friends he had brought in as 
well. The process of filling up the empty seats on his plane 
was no longer a game; it was a Sisyphean obsession. 
After four days of such profound stress that he could 
neither eat nor sleep, Icarus experienced a breakthrough. He 
realized that, come what may, there would be no winning for 
him. If the airplane crashed, he’d go down with his passen- 
gers; and even if he piloted out, he would feel obliged to put 
that money in reserve for the people he had recruited— 
assuming, of course, that he was interested in keeping his 
friends. 
When I handed him my envelope (stuffed with cash from 
the San Francisco Examiner’s expense kitty), Icarus still felt 
certain there was enough residual momentum to allow him 
and the other pilots to recoup their investment. And even 
though he made no guarantees about potential windfalls, he 
continued his attempts to bring new players in—standing by 
the belief that the “process” itself could be genuinely valu- 
able for some people—“people who are just treading water 
in their lives,” he explained. “To play this game, you have to 
close your eyes and plunge straight ahead. 
“You can play the game like a good sportsman,” Icarus 
insisted, “or you can play it in a scheming, predatory way. 
There’s no doubt that, on one level, there’s a bunch of 
intensely greedy people playing a pyramid game. But don’t 
36 
sell it short; this is a moral arena of tremendous force and 
scope. It’s sort of like a war,” he reflected with a wry grim- 
ace. “It brings out the best and worst in people.” 
he “war” that Icarus described was fought on two 
fronts. There were the endless hours on the phone, ca- 
joling and counseling; and there were the group meet- 
ings, the sustenance of the game, redolent with its 
richest ingredients: a pinch of sales seminar, a dash of 
football huddle, and a heapin’ helpin’ of New Age encounter 
group, served atop a bed of word salad. They were a place to 
show off the lively pace of the game to newcomers, and an 
opportunity for veteran players to reaffirm to each other— 
and themselves—their pristine motives. 
The first meeting I attended took place one Sunday night 
in Emeryville, at the home of a pilot code-named Blue Pearl. 
A tall man with a squarish jaw and melodious Swedish 
accent, Blue Pearl had joined the game early. He had already 
piloted out twice, and he was currently pilot on two or three 
separate planes. 
The house filled up rapidly; soon there was barely room 
to stand. Blue Pearl called for a period of silence, during 
which I studied the surroundings. Images of Swami Muktan- 
anda and the Hindu deities hung on the walls, along with 
pictures of dolphins and rainbows. The eighty or ninety 
guests breathed easily, eyes closed. 
If I 
had hoped to see any stigmata of greed or gullibility 
upon this crowd, I was disappointed. The gathering was 
largely young, white, and composed mostly of women, the 
sort of people you might find at a therapists’ convention. I 
spied several blacks, including a Jamaican with dreadlocks 
and a couple of men in their 60s. 
Once the meditation ended, it became clear that there 
was a very pedestrian kind of tension in the room—a direct 
result of the newspaper articles that had appeared that 
weekend. Pyramid games, the stories had pointed out, were 
illegal, immoral, and just plain stupid, since simple mathe- 
matics proved that this merry romp would have to end with 
hefty losses for the pawns at the bottom. 
The math could wait. Were the players breaking the law 
or not? The answer seemed to be yes. According to the State 
Penal Code (section 327), promoting any pyramid or “end- 
less chain” game—including chain letters—is a misde- 
meanor. In fact, the very same Airplane Game had already 
been busted—with numerous arrests made—in Denver, 
Dallas, and sunny Santa Barbara. 
But the prevailing attitude that evening was that this 
game fell into a gray area of the law. This was not, after all, 
a typical pyramid scheme—it was a growth experience. 
Everyone was here voluntarily. The code names? They were 
part of the mystery, part of the fun. Sure, all new players had 
to be brought in by friends. How else could it be assured that 
the game would be played “in integrity”? 
To underline this attitude, and to attempt to circumvent 
what the players felt was an unjust law, Blue Pearl (who, 
perhaps because of his relative seniority, seemed to have 
gratuitously adopted the mantle of “first among equals”) 
mandated that a dramatic step be taken. The game would no 
longer be called the Airplane Game. It was now the Abun- 
dance Workshop, undertaken for a “tuition” of $1,500. There 
