were willing to support the facts in question. 
Far from convincing St. Amand, the affidavit 
dismayed him. He sent it to another physi- 
cist, Pierre Bertholon, who published it with 
the following comment: 
If the readers have already had occasion to 
deplore the error of some individuals, how 
much more will they be appalled today 
seeing a whole municipality attest to, con- 
secrate, by a legal protocol in good form, 
these same popular rumors, which can only 
excite the pity, not only of physicists, but 
of all reasonable people . 
. 
. 
. What can we 
add here to such an affidavit? All the re- 
flections which it suggests will present 
themselves to the philosophical reader in 
reading this authentic illustration of an 
obviously wrong fact, of a phenomenon 
physically impossible. 
Others, however, began to take a different 
view. In 1794, the physicist Ernst Chladni 
published a daring book that suggested 
falling stones were dropped by the “fiery 
meteors” whose nature no one had yet ex- 
plained. Others, such as English chemist 
Edward Howard, used the new chemistry of 
Lavoisier to show that meteorites were indeed 
not ordinary rocks. In 1803, a meteorite 
shower 70 miles from Paris created such a stir 
that it was investigated by the eminent physi- 
cist Jean-Baptiste Biot, who showed that 
there was no doubt the stones had fallen. 
This ended most of the incredulity in Europe. 
But when a meteorite fell at Weston, Con- 
necicut, in 1807, President Thomas Jefferson 
was not disposed to believe it was real. 
Pressed by an acquaintance as to his opin- 
ion, he said he could sum it up in five words: 
“Tt is all a lie.” A month later, he expressed 
a somewhat more moderate opinion in a let- 
ter to Daniel Salmon, and suggested that 
the matter might be looked into by the 
American Philosophical Society. His initial 
reaction, however, is perfectly understand- 
able. And for many scientists, it is the 
more enduring attitude. 
The Self-Constructed Model 
In 1819, Ernst Chladni reflected back on his 
struggles for the recognition of meteorites. 
While the Enlightenment, the 18th century 
intellectual movement that examined accepted 
doctrines of the time, had brought certain 
benefits, he felt it also brought with it cer- 
tain intellectual problems. Now scientists 
“thought it necessary to throw away or reject 
as error anything that did not conform to a 
self-constructed model.” The very success 
of scientific experiment and theory had led 
to a misplaced confidence that what was real 
was already within the circle of science. What 
was outside, therefore, what did not conform 
to scientists’ theories, could be dismissed by 
invoking scientific authority and by ignoring 
or ridiculing observations not supported 
by it. 
More recently, in 1979, the medical researcher 
Ludwik Fleck noted in his book The Genesis 
and Development of a Scientific Fact a very 
similar trend. He wrote: 
What we are faced with here is not so much 
simple passivity or mistrust of new ideas as 
an active approach which can be divided in- 
to several stages. 
(1) A contradiction to the system appears 
unthinkable. 
(2) What does not fit into the system re- 
mains unseen; 
(3) alternatively, if it is noticed, either it is 
kept secret, or 
(4) laborious efforts are made to explain an 
exception in terms that do not contradict 
the system. 
(5) Despite the legitimate claims of con- 
tradictory views, one tends to see, describe, 
or even illustrate those circumstances which 
corroborate current views and thereby give 
them substance. 
What does not fit the theory is thus excluded. 
The anomalous event is forced outside the 
official circle of consciousness into a kind of 
outlaw existence. 
i 
This happened with the unusual luminous 
phenomenon known as “ball lightning.” 
This form of lightning appears as a luminous 
ball, usually smaller than a basketball, and is 
quite short-lived (usually less than a min- 
ute). It has a long history of observation, but 
for many decades was an outlaw event in 
meteorology. In the 1930s, W. J. Humphreys, 
eo ee
