an influential official in the U. S. Weather 
Bureau, had argued persuasively that ball 
lightning was probably an optical illusion. 
There was subsequently little mention of ball 
lightning in meteorology textbooks, and per- 
sons with scientific training who observed 
ball lightning generally kept quiet about 
it. When commented upon, it was described 
as a rare event. One of the reasons that it 
appeared to be a rare event is shown in anec- 
dotes like the following, which appeared in 
The Lightning Book by Peter Viemeister: 
During the summer of 1937 several technical 
observers on duty at 500 Fifth Avenue, dur- 
ing the Empire State Building lightning 
program, saw what might be interpreted as 
ball lightning, not once but four times. One 
of the engineers, now the chief technical 
executive of a large power company, saw a 
bluish luminescence slowly descend the 
38-foot tower of the Empire State Building 
after four of the ten or eleven strokes that 
hit the tower that evening. Fearing that his 
colleagues would regard him as a lightning- 
ball “quack,” he was hesitant to speak 
about what he had seen, but decided to 
mention it anyway. Surprisingly several of 
the others admitted seeing the same things. 
These observations were omitted from the 
technical reports since they did not appear 
on the recording cameras nor on the 
oscillograph records. 
Thus, because there is no spontaneous reporting 
of the anomalous event, scientists may as- 
sume that there is no event to be reported. 
That this might be a self-fulfilling prophecy 
is hardly considered. Part of the problem, of 
course, is that no one is asked whether they 
have seen an unclassified phenomenon. 
When surveys of technical personnel re- 
garding ball lightning were done in 1966 at 
two national laboratories, many meteorol- 
ogists were surprised to discover that four 
percent of the potential observers in one 
laboratory had seen it. This hardly qualifies 
as a rare event! 
The problem with ball lightning is that no 
one has yet found a satisfactory theory to 
explain it. It is tempting for physicists to 
argue, as some in fact have, that since it can’t 
be explained, it probably doesn’t exist! (I.e., 
if it doesn’t fit the self-constructed model, 
it’s not real.) So thousands of ball lightning 
sightings were ruled inadmissible and ig- 
nored. In the last decade or so, 
a much more 
positive attitude has prevailed, but the phe- 
nomenon is still far from completely accepted. 
A similar thing happened with “meteor 
noise.” When meteors pass through the 
atmosphere or explode, they often cause 
powerful sonic booms, as one would expect. 
It 1s tempting for 
physicists to axgue 
that since ball lightning © 
. 
can't be explained, it 
. » probably doesn't exist! 
(i 
astiede 
us 
>) 
is 
ye 
te" 
f 
= 
eA 
iUgypeuaee: 
y. 
But some observers, say 20 percent of people 
who have seen meteors, also report that the 
meteor made a swishing, crackling, or his- 
sing noise while in flight. Since the meteors 
are often tens of miles away, these reports 
seem implausible, since sound only travels 
about a thousand feet per second. Yet there 
have been cases in which individuals have 
first heard the meteor and then have gone 
outside to see it, and many others from cred- 
ible people which relate the sound heard 
simultaneously with the meteor observation. 
Such experiences, because they seemed im- 
plausible, were simply dismissed by some 
meteoriticists. One researcher even sugges- 
ted there was an inverse correlation between 
the observer's education and his willingness 
to make such reports. More recent studies 
suggest, however, that meteors produce very 
low frequency (VLF) radiation. Some people 
(not all) perceive VLF radiation as sound, 
either because of its direct effects on the 
brain or because it causes acoustic effects 
in objects near the observer. Now that an 
explanation has been found, physicists 
are more willing to take such anomalous 
sounds seriously. 
oc 
105 
