UFOs and Outer Space Mysteries 
James Oberg, space-science writer and former NASA em- 
ployee, is a “sympathetic skeptic” whose genuine fascination 
for the UFO phenomenon is exceeded only by his stubborn de- 
termination to track down the facts behind the reports. He in- 
vokes detective-novel thrills as he unravels some of ufology’s 
longstanding mysteries. An expert on both the U.S. and Rus- 
sian space programs, Oberg includes especially riveting chap- 
ters on astronaut UFO sightings and the “missing” Russian 
cosmonauts who literally have been retouched out of history. 
His discussion of lunar mysteries and the crank literature sur- 
rounding them is equally delightful. 
—T.S. 
e 
The keystone of Beckley’s “saucer sex” story was a news- 
paper account dated February 12, 1978, entitled “Kidnapped 
to Venus.” Reporter Jerry Burger related how a thirty-one-year- 
old librarian was found by police as she wandered nude in a 
town park. She claimed she had been “abducted by Ve- 
nusians,” taken to the “back of the moon,” and there “im- 
planted with outer-space semen” before being returned to 
earth. Beckley reported the case as true and added that 
“such reports are taking place on a global scale 
. 
. 
. There can 
be little doubt from the documented evidence that some tre- 
mendous event is slated to happen that will guide us to a 
higher understanding of ourselves and the cosmos . 
. 
. The 
UFOnauts are trying to teach us a lesson—that love is univer- 
sal and encompasses every living creature, regardless of their 
planet or dimension of origin.” And for those readers who 
wanted more information, Beckley added that the “saucer 
sex” story is just one chapter in his new book, Strange En- 
counters—Bizarre & Eerie Contacts with Flying Saucers, avail- 
able from the author: $6.95 plus postage and handling. 
Unfortunately, Beckley’s story is even more absurd than it 
first appears—and that’s saying a lot. Houston spaceflight 
expert Robert Nichols actually unearthed the original of the 
UFOs and Outer Space 
Mysteries 
A Sympathetic Skeptic’s Report 
James Oberg 
1982; 192 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Donning Company Publishers 
Norfolk, VA 
newspaper clipping quoted by Beckley. The article did not 
come from a real newspaper at all, but from a 1978 satirical 
publication, the Sunday Newspaper Parody written by the Na- 
tional Lampoon staff. Beckley (or somebody on his staff) evi- 
dently made some editorial changes to enhance the credibility 
(such as it is) of the article, changing the original spelling of 
the saucer rape victim from the highly suspicious “Penelope 
Cuntz” to the acceptably ethnic “Penelope Kuntz,” and altering 
the name of the newspaper from the rather utopian Dacron, 
Ohio Republican-Democrat to the Toronto Sunday Sun. The 
entire account, then, is a fictional spoof—but the extent of 
Beckley’s role in promoting it and altering it (or merely passing 
it along credulously) is still undetermined. 
e 
The greatest mystery of the moon remains the reports of 
lights and shadows on the surface, which come and go unex- 
pectedly. Called ‘Lunar Transient Phenomena’ (LTP), they con- 
sist of hundreds of documented cases of glows, flashes, ob- 
scurations, mists, and colored patches. Scientists take them 
quite seriously and have a number of theories. 
.. 
. 
The distribution of LTP sightings is not random, showing a 
preference for the edges of the lunar maria or a few young 
craters (there are very few reports from the lunar highlands), 
suggesting a volcanic connection. 
. 
. 
. There are no coinciden- 
ces between the most active LTP sites and any of the moon- 
quake regions charted by the [Apollo earthquake-detecting] 
stations... 
UFOs: The Public Deceived. 
Recently Budd Hopkins, author of Missing Time and In- 
truders (see p. 157), wrote: “Klass must be treated the way 
one treats any other grossly incompetent investigator. He 
must be totally ignored. 
. 
. 
. | will never again receive his 
phone calls and | will return his letters unopened.” Though 
some infuriated UFO believers would agree with Hopkins, 
those who appreciate constructive criticism are on friendly 
terms with ufology’s reigning arch-skeptic. Klass, former sen- 
ior editor of Aviation Week and Space Technology and a 
founding fellow of the Committee for the Scientific Investiga- 
tion of Claims of the Paranormal (see p. 197), has spent over 
20 years investigating UFO reports. His books demonstrate 
that seemingly inexplicable cases often have quite prosaic ex- 
planations, and that many ufologists are incompetent 
investigators. UFOs: The Public Deceived includes a full ac- 
count of Klass’s firsthand, damning exposure of the hoax be- 
hind the Travis Walton abduction case, voted the “Best Case 
of 1975” and awarded $5000 by the National Enquirer. 
—T.S. 
UFOs: The Public Deceived 
Philip J. Klass 
1983; 310 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.95 postpaid) from: 
Prometheus Books 
700 East Amherst St. 
Buffalo, NY 14215 
800/421-0351 
160 
e 
On May 9, | wrote Mrs. Chenoweth to tell her of the Min- 
uteman launch from Vandenberg. She replied on May 13 with 
a letter that began: “You have done me such a huge favor. 
. .. Thank heavens, inexplicable things have not arrived to 
taunt us from the heavens .. .” Her reaction stands in sharp 
contrast to many “UFO sighters,” who will go so far as to 
sharply revise their original description of the incident after a 
prosaic explanation has been found in an effort to invalidate 
that explanation and to retain the distinction of “having seen a 
genuine UFO.” 
e 
On June 10, 1977, the Washington Post carried a short 
article reporting that a UFO had been sighted. by a number of 
persons two nights earlier on the outskirts of the metropolitan 
area. One Maryland State Police officer described the object 
as resembling a “giant jellyfish.” He was quoted as saying 
that the strange object had “disappeared in the southern por- 
tion of the sky after hovering for approximately five minutes.” 
If, as one might expect, this law enforcement officer’s word 
“hovering” meant precisely that, clearly this UFO could not 
possibly be a fixed-wing advertising aircraft. 
But the next day’s edition of the Post said that the UFO 
had indeed been identified as an advertising airplane. As a 
result of the previous article, the newspaper had received a 
telephone call from a Nadine Brown, who said “We are the cul- 
prits.” She went on to explain that she and her husband oper- 
ated an advertising airplane, 
a Cessna-150 with more than 
three hundred electric lights, controlled electronically to spell 
out sales messages. 
Mrs. Brown said: “You can see it from 
a long ways away, but you cannot read the message unless 
you are a quarter of a mile on each side of it.” For observers 
watching from a greater distance and more oblique angle, she 
said, “you see a 
jellyfish sort of thing.” 
