(Facing page, far left) Diagram from 
Marshall Gardner's A Journey to 
the Earth's Interlor (1920) indl- 
cates by letters the steps in an 
Imaginary journey to the inner 
earth; at point “D” the central 
sun’s corona Is first glimpsed, 
while at “E” It Is clearly visible 
(as depicted in the painting 
reproduced on page 89). 
(Facing page, center and right) 
Photographs of both halves of 
an actual cutaway scale-model 
hollow globe that Gardner bullt 
and patented, showing the cen- 
tral sun and the interior continents 
and seas. (Right) William Reed’s 
earlier concept of the Hollow Earth, 
from his Phantom of the Poles (1906). 
The shell of galaxies appears to move as a whole in 
this direction relative to the earth at its center. 
A two- 
dimensional 
analogy for the 
distribution of galaxies 
about the earth. 
—With Every Wind of Doctrine 
in a previously unknown side tunnel shortly after the disappear- 
ances. 
—A Guide to the Inner Earth 
e 
Several years ago, according to Lovelace, two prospectors 
were searching for a gold strike in the desolate mountains of 
southwestern Nevada. The two men were digging in the arid soil 
when a Cave-in revealed a dark opening in the ground. They cau- 
tiously entered the newly-formed cavity and soon found them- 
selves in a vast underground tunnel. 
Following the passageway, 
they went deep into the heart of the mountain and finally entered 
a large subterranean room, which they found to be the first in a 
series of interconnected caverns. 
The two astonished prospectors held their torches high and 
saw that the caves were furnished with chairs and tables, “furni- 
ture of an immense size, as if built by giants.” Over-sized dishes 
cast from solid gold and silver were also found on the tables. 
Other artifacts made from precious metals were also discovered 
in the caverns, apparently of an imperishable alloy, all having evi- 
dence of being undisturbed for countless centuries. 
—Mount Shasta 
" 
e 
Reports of unusual fires which gave off a blue and white illu- 
mination deep in the center of the forests would surface. 
Be- 
tween the fire and the observer strange figures could be seen to 
pass at times. And, if the wind were blowing in the proper direc- 
tion, strange chantings and singing, accompanied by weird, beau- 
tiful music would float or be carried in the direction of one of the 
small nearby towns. 
—Mount Shasta 
e 
During the “midnight” ceremonies of these strange people, 
witnesses claim to have seen several hundreds of individuals 
around these fires, and at times strange beams of light are seen 
shining into the sky, sometimes catching a low hanging cloud, or 
illuminating strange dome-shaped buildings of marble and onyx. 
A strange stone monolith which had been discovered on the out- 
skirts of the forest was engraven with strange hieroglyphic-type 
writings as well as an English translation which read: “CERE- 
MONY OF ADORATION TO GUATAMA.” 
It was also apparent from 
the writings that the ceremonies occurred at sunrise, sunset, and 
midnight and that the word “Guatama’” referred to the continent 
of North America. 
—Mount Shasta 
e 
The superior scientific culture of the subterranean people, of 
which their flying saucers are an evident example, is the result of 
superior brain development and more energetic brains. 
This is 
due to the fact that their vital energies flow up to their brain, 
rather than being dissipated through the sexual channel as 
among so-called “civilized” surface races. 
In fact, sex indulgence 
is completely out of their lives, because of their fruit diet, their 
endocrines are in a state of perfect balance and harmonious func- 
tioning, as in little children, and are not stimulated to abnormal 
activity by metabolic toxins, as produced by such foods as meat, 
fowl, fish and eggs and by such aphrodisiacs as salt, pepper, cof- 
fee, tobacco and alcohol. 
—The Hollow Earth 
e 
It is claimed that the earth’s crust is honeycombed by a net- 
work of tunnels passing under the ocean from continent to conti- 
nent and leading to subterranean cities in large cavities in the 
earth. These tunnels are especially abundant in South America, 
especially under Brazil, which was the chief center of Atlantean 
colonization; and we may believe they were constructed by the At- 
lanteans. 
Most famous of these tunnels is the “Roadway of the 
Incas” which stretches for several hundred miles south of Lima, 
Peru, and passes under Cuzco, Tiahuanaco and the Three Peaks, 
proceeding to the Atacambo Desert. Another branch opens in 
Arica, Chile, visited by Madame Blavatsky. 
—The Hollow Earth 
e 
Let me again state my personal stance on geocentricity._ 
In- 
sofar as scientific evidence is concerned, it is a toss-up. 
Neither 
geocentricity nor heliocentrism can be proven or disproven from a 
modern scientific perspective. That has been my stance since 
the mechanics courses in my undergraduate years in astrophys- 
ics, since before becoming a Christian. To show that it is not an 
oddball or quack conclusion, | shall, Lord willing, reproduce in the 
next issue of the Bulletin several letters from physicists who 
agree with my early-drawn conclusion. For me, the determining is- 
sue is Biblical. 
If the Bible teaches geocentricity then that tips 
the evidential scales off neutral. 
Hence | claim no conclusive sci- 
entific argument for geocentricity; nor is there any for heliocen- 
trism. 
| may not always be right, but the ground whereupon | 
stand is secure. 
—Bulletin of the Tychonian Society 
e 
Is relativity the only theory which accounts for the precession 
of Mercury’s orbit? 
Is it the most accurate of all theories? 
Both 
questions are answered in the negative. 
Perihelion precessions 
can be accounted for by considering such things as the sun not 
being truly spherical in shape, or by the existence of matter be- 
tween the planet and the sun, or by the existence of matter out- 
side the orbit of the planet, or by gravitational shielding (where in- 
tervening material weakens the gravitational attraction between 
the sun and planet), or by considering the advanced potential 
(where the universe or ether “knows” what is to happen ahead of 
time). 
—With Every Wind of Doctrine 
Bulletin of the 
rages 
Tychonian Society 
Gerardus D. Bouw, Editor 
Sample copy free 
(donation requested) 
With Every Wind 
ye 
of Doctrine 
sRRHONTAN SOC 
Biblical, Historical and 
ae 
Scientific Perspectives 
of Geocentricity 
Both from: 
Gels Dou 
Gerardus D. Bouw 
19Saneoe OP: 
4527 Wetvel Ave. 
$10.95 postpaid 
Cleveland, OH 44109 
* 
: 
‘ 
t 
: 
\ 
ie 
es 
91 
