Parapsychology: The Skeptical Side 
Parapsychology has a problem. 
It’s been around for over 
a hundred years, yet it hasn't demonstrated the reality of its 
basic premise that psi exists—at least not to the satisfaction 
of the scientific community at large. Before parapsychology 
can cross this hurdle, it must successfully answer the ques- 
tions raised by its skeptics, and nowhere is the skeptical view- 
point better presented than in the hefty Skeptic’s Handbook 
of Parapsychology, which presents the work of over twenty- 
five authors, some of them parapsychologists and all of whom 
are concerned with the assumptions and practice of parapsy- 
chology. Among the offerings are fascinating historical over- 
views, beginning with the rise of spiritualism in the 1800s, en- 
tertaining discussions of historical and modern hoaxes, and 
counterexplanations for the phenomena interpreted as demon- 
strative of psychic forces both in daily life and in the lab. 
Psychologist C.E.M. Hansel’s ESP and Parapsychology: A 
Critical Re-evaluation makes a nice counterpoint companion 
volume to Foundations of Parapsychology, reviewed on the 
preceding page. It’s an experiment-by-experiment skeptical cri- 
tique of the body of parapsychological evidence, including 
early psychical research, spiritualism, J.B. Rhine and the moa- 
ern experimenters, Russian parapsychology, and the recent 
Uri Geller and remote-viewing work. Marks’ and Kammann’s 
Psychology of the Psychic zooms in on both Uri Geller and 
remote-viewing experiments (in which a subject supposedly 
senses the details of a target site to which another experi- 
menter has traveled). 
These two psychologists know what 
they're talking about: they’ve worked with Geller, and they’ve 
replicated the major remote-viewing experiments as well—with 
decidedly different results. 
—T.S. 
e 
Unfortunately, many parapsychologists appear to be com- 
mitted to belief in psi on the basis of a metaphysical or spiri- 
tualist world-view that they wish to vindicate. 
Charles Tart, a 
former president of the American Parapsychological Associa- 
tion, admits this motive. 
Giving an autobiographical account 
of why he became interested in parapsychology, he says: 
“| 
found it hard to believe that science could have totally ignored 
the spiritual dimensions of human existence 
. 
. 
. Parapsychol- 
ogy validated the existence of basic phenomena that could 
partially account for, and fit in with, some of the spiritual 
views of the universe.” 
Of course, parapsychologists will accuse the skeptic of 
being biased in favor of a materialist or physicalist viewpoint 
and claim that this inhibits him from looking at evidence for 
psi or accepting its revolutionary implications. 
Unfortunately, 
this has all too often been the case, for some skeptics have 
been unwilling to look at the evidence. 
This is indefensible. 
A 
priori negativism is as open to criticism as a priori wish-fulfill- 
ment. On the other hand, some constructive criticism is es- 
sential in science. 
All that a constructive skeptic asks of the 
parapsychologist is genuine confirmation of his findings and 
theories, no more and no less. 
| should like to make it clear that | am not denying the 
possible existence of psi phenomena, remote viewing, precog- 
nition, or PK. 
| am merely saying that, since these claims con- 
travene a substantial body of existing scientific knowledge, in 
A Skeptic’s Handbook 
ESP And 
of Parapsychology 
Parapsychology 
Paul Kurtz, Editor 
A Critical Re-evaluation 
1985; 727 pp. 
C.E.M. Hansel 
$17.95 
1980; 325 pp. 
($19.95 postpaid) 
$14.95 
($16.95 postpaid) 
order for us to modify our basic principles—and we must be 
prepared to do so—the evidence must be extremely strong. 
But that it is, remains highly questionable. 
—A Skeptic’s Handbook of Parapsychology 
¢ 
Claim: In 1951, the Dutch/American clairvoyant Peter 
Hurkos identified as the perpetrator of a series of arsons near 
Nijmegan the 17-year-old son of a respected local family whom 
the police believed to be beyond suspicion. To the utter 
amazement of the police chief, the boy confessed to the crime 
when confronted by Hurkos. 
Facts: The 17-year-old arsonist, a mentally deranged 
farmer’s son, had been the prime suspect almost from the 
beginning. He was arrested after the police at the site of one 
of the fires found candy wrappings of a brand the boy had re- 
cently bought in large quantity at the local confectioner’s 
shop. Hurkos’s attempts to solve the case began only on the 
day after the suspect had been arrested and the case had for 
all intents and purposes been solved. 
—A Skeptic’s Handbook of Parapsychology 
e¢ 
There are many ways of making small objects bend: 
(1) 
Distract everybody, bend the object manually, conceal the 
bend, and then reveal the bend to the now attentive onlook- 
ers. 
This is [Uri Geller's] usual method. The bend is made ei- 
ther by a two-handed tweak, or by levering it in something 
tough like a belt buckle or the head of another key with a hole 
in the top. (2) Geller (or an accomplice) pre-stresses the ob- 
ject by bending it many times until it's nearly at breaking 
point. 
Later it can be used to dazzle unsuspecting audiences 
as it bends, appears to melt, or even snaps in two pieces fol- 
lowing the slightest pressure from Uri's wiry fingers. (3) Quite 
often collections of metal objects (e.g., a bunch of keys or a 
drawer of cutlery) contain one or more items that are already 
bent. 
Geller tells you he'll bend something and, when you ex- 
amine the whole set of objects carefully, the bent item is 
found and Uri takes credit. 
(4) When an object is already 
bent, Geller will often say that it will continue to bend. He 
may move the object slowly to enhance the effect, or place it 
on a flat surface and push down on one end. But many peo- 
ple will believe they can see an object slowly bending purely 
as a result of Geller's suggestion that it is doing so. 
(5) Sub- 
stitute objects already bent for the ones provided. 
—The Psychology of the Psychic 
e 
[In the 1960's, Dr. Helmut Schmidt conducted psychoki- 
nesis (PK) experiments] employing cockroaches as subjects. 
The animals received a shock or not according to the state of 
the randomizer. 
In this case the cockroaches, it seems, were 
unsuccessful in affecting the randomizer so as to avoid shock, 
but they caused it to produce 109 more shocks in 6,400 gen- 
erated numbers than would be expected to arise by chance. 
Schmidt commented: “The magnitude of this deviation sug- 
gested that it might be a real effect, even though it raised the 
question of why a possible PK ability in cockroaches should 
work to their disadvantage.” 
He did not consider the possibil- 
ity that there might be any fault in his randomizer or method of 
data collection, or even that the result might have arisen by 
chance. 
—ESP and Parapsychology 
The Psychology 
4! from: 
. 
Prometheus Books 
of the Psychic 
DavidiiMerke and 
700 East Amherst St. 
Richard Kammann 
B00 ac eseimns 
1980; 232 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.95 postpaid) 
ee 
Me 
69 
