“Look,” Porter sighed, thumbing midnight blue sus- 
penders. “We have two people working here—two. This is 
not the major thing we’re worried about. Right now I’m 
trying to stop foreclosures on peoples’ homes. I won’t put 
that aside to play this intellectual game. 
Extraordinary Popular Delusions 
and the Madness of Crowds 
Most of us are cursed by the tunnel vision of our own brief 
lives and times. 
We imagine that the enthusiasms that 
“] think that if people lose money on this, they get what’s 
sweep through popular consciousness have been discovered 
| 
coming to em. What people who play these games are really 
de novo by our contemporaries. A rare book like Charles 
saying is, ‘I don’t care if I 
steal from my neighbor, as long as 
Mackay’s venerable classic, first published in 1841, can pro- 
vide a larger, wiser perspective on human nature. Mackay 
gives spirited histories of mass delusions and popular fads 
that were bygone in his day—alchemy, the Crusades, witch- 
my neighbor steals from someone else.’ Maybe the ultimate 
guy who suffers the loss will be two or three neighbors away. 
It’s a very self-centered greed. Most people who participate 
hunts—and others that had both historical and current mani- 
in this,” he concluded disgustedly, “have a little larceny in 
festations: “get-rich-quick” schemes, magnetic healing, for- 
their hearts.” 
tune-telling, haunted houses, personality cults, changing fash- 
Porter’s attitude was echoed by law enforcement agents 
re eee 
nae Be 
eee Sauer Py eopter sang 
. 
; 
: 
expressions. 
His subject is inherently fascinating, and his 
in Marin, San Francisco, and the East Bay. The game was 
message echoes across the space of nearly a century and a 
illegal, no doubt about it. Officers could indeed go into 
half, all the clearer for the distance: human nature doesn’t 
meetings and make arrests. But unless complaints were 
change. Understand this and see your world anew. 
—T.S. 
filed, it would be very difficult to get any convictions. So, at 
¢ 
The tulip-jobbers speculated in the rise and fall of the tu- 
least for the time being, no action would be taken; and it was 
lip stocks, and made large profits by buying when prices fell, 
quite possible that none would be necessary. 
and selling out when they rose. Many individuals grew sud- 
For about a month, Rich Michaels, assistant district at- 
denly rich. A golden bait hung temptingly out before the 
people, and one after the other, they rushed to the tulip- 
torney for consumer fraud in Alameda County, had been 
marts, like flies around a honey-pot. Every one imagined that 
receiving calls from people who wanted to know if the Air- 
the passion for tulips would last for ever, and that the 
plane Game was legal or not. He informed them it was not, 
wealthy from every part of the world would send to Holland, 
“which didn’t seem to be. in most cases. what they wanted 
and pay whatever prices were asked for them. The riches of 
Pf 
ets 
one 
: 
; 
: 
Europe would be concentrated on the shores of the Zuyder 
to hear,” he said. 
“But there’s been a substantial drop-off in 
Zee, and poverty banished from the favoured clime of Hol- 
inquiries during the past week and a half,” he told me in mid- 
land. Nobles, citizens, farmers, mechanics, seamen, foot- 
March. “It could be because the games are slowly dying. 
men, maid-servants, even chimney sweeps and old-clothes- 
They’ll fade and die, there’s absolutely no question about 
women, dabbled in tulips. People of all grades converted 
their property into cash, and invested it in flowers. 
that—and the people at the bottom will lose their investment. 
The question is, how far can prosecutors go to protect people 
* London is peculiarly fertile in this sort of phrases, which 
who should be in a position to protect themselves? It seems 
Spring up suddenly, no one knows in exactly what spot, and 
Panes 
; 
oe 
pervade the whole population in a few hours, no one knows 
tome that these people ah victims only of their ee greed. 
how. Many years ago the favourite phrase (for, though but a 
I did speak with one officer, Detective Patrick Fahy with 
monosyllable, it was a phrase in itself) was Quoz. This odd 
the fraud division of the San Rafael Police Department, who 
word took the fancy of the multitude in an extraordinary de- 
had actually infiltrated a meeting of the Airplane Game in | 8'€@, and very soon acquired an almost boundless meaning. 
Marin County. 
Fahy 
and Detective Michael Miller had 
When vulgar wit wished to mark its incredulity, and raise a 
<a 
ye) 
y 
f 
p 
3 
laugh at the same time, there was no resource so sure as 
gotten in right in the thick of things but, as reported in the 
this popular piece of slang. When a man was asked a favour 
Oakland Tribune, they had not made any arrests. I wondered 
which he did not choose to grant, he marked his sense of the 
about this. 
suitor's unparalleled presumption by exclaiming Quoz! When 
“ 
» 
. 
“ 
a mischievous urchin wished to annoy a passenger, and cre- 
They had about ~ People Fahy geplancd: 
We 
ate mirth for his comrades, he looked him in the face, and 
weren't prepared for it. Fahy compared the level of energy 
cried out Quoz! and the exclamation never failed in its object. 
and enthusiasm to something you might encounter at a 
When a disputant was desirous of throwing a doubt upon the 
European soccer game. “If we had attempted to make an 
veracity of his opponent, and getting summarily rid of an argu- 
arrest,” he said, “I think it could have turned out to be a riot 
ment which he could not overturn, he uttered the word Quoz, 
; 
: 
A 
with a contemptuous curl of his lip and an impatient shrug of 
to be perfectly honest. 
his shoulders. 
The universal monosyllable conveyed all his 
Regardless of the press, the police, or even common 
meaning, and not only told his opponent that he lied, but that 
sense, the Abundance Workshop obviously had an uncanny 
he erred egregiously if he thought that any one was such a 
appeal that cut clean through questions of legality. As this 
nincompoop as to believe him. Every alehouse resounded 
story was first going to print in 1987, I heard that the game 
with Quoz; every street-comer was noisy with it, and every 
fee 
: 
wall for miles around was chalked with it. 
was beginning to take hold among the professional staff at 
San Francisco’s city jail. 
Extraordinary Popular Delusions 
and the Madness of Crowds 
. 
: 
Charles Mackay 
he Airplane Game reportedly surfaced in San Rafael as 
1841, 1980: 748 pp. 
early as January 1986. A woman who attended one of 
$7.95 
the first meetings recalled that a Houston yoga instruc- 
($10.45 postpaid) from: 
tor named Morning Star emceed the session. ‘““We’ve 
Crown Publishers Order Dept. 
spent years dealing with issues of fitness and enlighten- 
eae pard Ave. 
Avenel, NJ 07001 
ment,” she crooned. “Now we need to focus on money in 
201/382-7600 
order to survive.” Morning Star then shared a touching story 
39 
