CRYSTAL 
POWER: 
Welcome to the Stone Age 
by Lawrence Jerome 
RE CRYSTALS ALIVE? 
Can crystals capture your 
thoughts, your desires, 
your feelings? Can crystals heal, in- 
crease your ESP powers, purify wa- 
ter, and improve the taste of wine? 
Many people believe that crystals— 
especially quartz crystals—can do 
all these things and more, including: 
facilitate astral projection, improve 
gas mileage, enhance channeling 
(communicating with dead or dis- 
embodied spirits), energize people 
and machines, control the earth’s 
electromagnetic field, and serve as 
the energy sources for the legendary 
civilizations of Atlantis and Le- 
muria. 
In the last few years, dozens of books have been written 
about crystals and crystal power, and more are coming out 
almost daily. Crystals have been featured in many movies 
and TV shows (most notably in Shirley MacLaine’s televi- 
sion movie Out ona Limb), and almost every magazine and 
newspaper—even Time magazine—has run articles on crys- 
tals. As a result of all this publicity, crystal prices have 
quadrupled in the last few years, making millionaires of 
dealers who jumped on the bandwagon early. 
Proponents of “crystal power” call attention to its long 
history, pointing out that crystals were prized by prehistoric 
shamans (medicine men and women) for their healing pow- 
ers, and that the Egyptians used crystals in their religious 
rituals. Some writers even go so far as to state that the pyra- 
mids were once faced with or capped by crystals. Unfortu- 
nately, so much that is dubious has been written about the 
history of crystal power that it’s 
now difficult to separate fact from 
fantasy. 
Certainly, shamans did 
use crystals in their healing cere- 
monies thousands of years ago— 
given the beauty and symmetry of 
crystals, it would be surprising if 
they hadn’t—but it’s doubtful if 
shamanistic crystal power was as 
universally widespread as many 
modern writers proclaim. 
Egyptians, too, probably used 
crystals in some of their rituals, but 
if the pyramids once were covered 
or capped with crystals it seems 
strange that no writer of the time 
mentions that fact. Herodotus, for 
instance, who visited the pyramids 
around 460 B.c., makes no mention of crystals on or atop the 
pyramids in his famous book The History, although he does 
describe the “crystal coffins” used by the Ethiopians to dis- 
play their dead. Museums and books on Egyptian art are 
strangely devoid of any samples of ceremonial crystals, so 
it’s unlikely that crystals played much of a role in Egyptian 
society. 
Crystal pendants, probably worn as necklaces, have 
been unearthed from neolithic archaeological sites dating 
back 80,000 years, and an inscription on a 4,000-year-old 
Babylonian cylinder seal reads: “A seal of Du-Shi-A (quartz 
crystal) will extend the possessions of a man and its name is 
auspicious.’ While similar evidence of the use of crystals 
in primitive societies is scarce, the fact that shamans around 
the world—in Australia, Siberia, Africa, and both South and 
North America—still use crystals today gives credence to 
Even though an incredible amount has been written on crystals in the last couple of years, it’s difficult to find anything even re- 
motely objective on the subject. Enter Lawrence Jerome. There's no doubt that Mr. Jerome has a handle on crystals from a physi- 
cal-science viewpoint: he holds an advanced degree in Materials Science, and has worked for many years as a technical writer and 
consultant in the field. But he’s also qualified to comment on the less scientific side of the coin— the current “crystal power” craze 
— because he’s spent over a year researching the subject for a book. In fact, in the past months Jerome has slept with crystals under 
his pillow, attached a crystal to his car’s carburetor (to see if it improved gas mileage), and interviewed crystal-power proponents 
from all over the country. If you’ 
re intrigued by what he’s written here, you might want to check out his book from Prometheus Press 
(see page 200). 
—TS. 
31 
