| “Micro-Psi” or ATOMS: 
| Did 
two Theosophists use psychic 
| powers to accurately describe subatomic 
articles unknown to the scientists of 
eir day? According to an article by 
ritish physicist Stephen Phillips in the 
_ December 1986 Theosophical Research 
fournal, modern physics has recently 
| confirmed that Theosophical Society 
| leaders Annie Besant (1847-1933) and 
| Charles Leadbeater (1847-1934) per- 
| formed such a paranormal feat in the 
| early 1900s. 
| ___ Through intensive study, Besant and 
| Leadbeater supposedly acquired the 
| “knowledge of the small, the hidden, or 
| the distant by directing the light of a su- 
| perphysical faculty,” as described by the 
_ Indian scholar Patanjali in his book Yoga 
Sutras (400 B.C.). The two Theosophists 
applied this power to the study of the ele- 
ments, perceiving small units common to 
all substances, which they identified as 
“atoms.” They found that these “atoms” 
came in seven shapes, corresponding to 
| _ the seven rows of the periodic table of 
| elements. But the atom of hydrogen (the 
| most basic element) was different, and 
was “seen to consist of six small bodies, 
contained in an egg-like form . . 
. It ro- 
tated with great rapidity on its own axis, 
vibrating at the same time, the internal 
bodies performing similar gyration. The 
whole atom spins and quivers and has to 
be steadied before exact observation is 
possible. The six little bodies are ar- 
ranged in two sets of three, forming two 
triangles that are not interchangeable.” 
ultimate 
physical 
atom 
(Above) An 
“ultimate 
physical atom,” 
three of which make up each 
of the six “small bodies” in a 
hydrogen “atom” (right), as 
perceived clairvoyantly by 
Besant and Leadbeater. Phys- 
icist Stephen Phillips belleves 
the diabaryon (far right}, which 
contains six quarks, fs a per- 
fect match for Besant and 
Leadbeater's vision. 
The “little bodies” within the atoms in 
turn contained three “points of light,” 
which were named by Besant and Lead- 
beater “ultimate physical atoms” (see dia- 
grams). 
The clairvoyant duo’s picture of the 
hydrogen “atom” matched nothing known 
to the science of their time. Phillips be- 
lieves that what the two psychics identi- 
fied as a hydrogen “atom” was neither an 
atom nor a molecule (H,) of hydrogen, 
but instead was something modern physi- 
cists call a diabaryon. According to Phil- 
lips, the six little bodies within this dia- 
baryon were quarks, subatomic particles 
first described in 1963. And the “ultimate 
physical atoms” that Besant and Lead- 
beater said occurred in triplets within 
each of the six bodies were subquarks, 
controversial particles thought to exist by 
some physicists (including Phillips). 
CLAIRVOYANTLY PERCEIVED 
HYDROGEN "ATOM" 
DIABARYON THEORIZED 
BY MODERN PHYSICS 
What can we make of these claims? 
Phillips is not without bias; he is obvi- 
ously predisposed toward the idea of mi- 
cro-psi and even authored a book on the 
subject, Extrasensory Perception of 
Quarks, published by the Theosophical 
Publishing House in 1980. Furthermore, 
Besant and Leadbeater made many pre- 
dictions about molecular and atomic 
structure (recorded in their 1908 volume 
Occult 
Chemistry) for which there are no 
correspondences in past or present scien- 
tific theory—perhaps Phillips’s examples 
are just lucky matches. And the existence 
of subquarks, which Phillips identifies 
with Besant and Leadbeater’s “ultimate 
physical atoms,” is by no means certain. 
It would be extremely interesting to hear 
from a neutral physicist who has taken 
the time to look into Phillips’s claims. 
—L§. 
and like a pair of battling siamese twins, neither seemed 
quite comfortable with sharing the power. H.P.B. died 
from influenza in May 1891. 
Olcott, though getting on in age, maintained leader- 
ship of the T.S. for the next few years as a new power 
struggle erupted. Predictably, a battle for successorship to 
the founders’ mantle was taking shape. On one side stood 
Annie Besant, a birth-control advocate, free-thinker, and 
former Fabian socialist who had joined the Society in 
1889 and risen quickly to leadership of the Esoteric Sec- 
tion founded by H.P.B. On the other side was William Q. 
Judge, a lawyer who had been in on the T.S.’s founding in 
New York and who had become leader of the American 
Section and T.S. vice president after Blavatsky and entou- 
rage left for India. With H.P.B. now dead, contact with 
the Masters was hard to come by, so when Judge claimed 
to possess new letters from the distant sages, he acquired 
considerable influence. Besant was initially impressed by 
Judge’s communiques, but a trip to India and a confronta- 
tion with some critical evidence convinced Besant that 
Judge’s Mahatma letters were a fraud. A fracas ensued. 
The T.S. at large shilly-shallied back and forth for a 
couple of years until public exposure of the controversy 
compelled action. Judge was asked to resign as vice 
president and stand for re-election in 1894. Shortly there- 
after, in April 1895, the American Section, six thousand 
members strong, voted to secede, and an independent 
“Theosophical Society in America” was formed with 
Judge as its head. Ironically, Judge died within a year of 
the schism, leaving the new group to thread its own way 
into the twentieth century. (In later years, the majority of 
American Theosophists found their way back into lodges 
affiliated with Adyar, and the Judge schism became a mi- 
nority within the movement as a whole.) 
With Judge out of the picture, Besant’s star continued 
to rise without hindrance, and she shared leadership of the 
surviving T.S. with Olcott until the Colonel’s death in 
1907 at the age of 75. About the time of Judge’s depar- 
ture, another unique individual who was to wield great in- 
fluence on the T.S.’s future returned to London after a 12- 
year stay in India and Ceylon. This was the clairvoyant 
25 
