could do experiments to test the idea that there is no such 
thing as psi. I think the simple answer is no, since you 
can’t prove a universal negative. 
There are, nevertheless, some close approximations 
which are quite interesting. One important question is 
why people should believe in psi if it doesn’t really exist. 
This led me to consider the events that typically increase 
people’s belief in psychic phenomena. One’s own psy- 
chic experiences, especially precognitive dreams, are the 
most common reason for believing in the paranormal. 
Like many other psychic experiences, these typically in- 
volve a coincidence of some sort—such as a correlation 
between a dream and a real event. But it is well known 
that people are very poor at judging the likelihood of a co- 
incidence. I wondered whether people who believe are 
worse than disbelievers at making such judgments of 
probability. This might explain how their beliefs came 
about erroneously. 
My husband Tom Troscianko and I tested probability 
judgments in groups of believers and nonbelievers and 
found that the believers were worse at many such tasks 
than the nonbelievers. We also found the believers were 
more prone to the illusion that they could control some- 
thing that is in fact a random process. Could these differ- 
ences explain why the believers see evidence of the para- 
normal in the world around them, even though it doesn’t 
exist? Maybe—but these finding don’t actually prove that 
the paranormal does not exist. That is impossible. 
The other major challenge to the skeptic’s position is, 
of course, the fact that opposing positive evidence exists 
in the parapsychological literature. I couldn’t dismiss it 
all. This raises a very interesting question: Just how 
much weight can you or should you give the results of 
your own experiments over those of other people? On the 
one hand, your own should carry more weight, since you 
know exactly how they were done and you know (even if 
no one else does) that you didn’t cheat or make up the re- 
sults. On the other hand, science 1s necessarily a collec- 
tive enterprise. If scientists do not believe each other’s 
Adventures of a Parapsychologist 
This is Susan Blackmore’s delightful and very personal 
autobiographical account of her quest as a professional para- 
psychologist. Along the way she looks for psychics and polter- 
geists, meets famous parapsychologists (including J.B. Rhine, 
Eric Dingwall, Charles Tart, and others), and comes to some 
hard-won conclusions that aren’t greeted warmly by her col- 
leagues. Her story is charming, her sincerity unquestionable. 
Through Ms. Blackmore’s eyes we enter a world of researchers 
who care deeply about “altered states of consciousness, 
stretching the imagination, meditation, magic, and mystical ex- 
perience,” but who somehow have laid all their hopes on the 
reality of psi. 
—T.S. 
e 
[Eric Dingwall] told us of the books he’d written, starting 
with one on the deformation of babies’ heads, through some 
unmentionable topic (goodness knows what it could have been 
given the ones he did mention), and on to the psychic ones. 
He began to talk of the people he had known, decades before 
we were born. 
“| knew Crawford, you know,” he said. 
“Il Suppose you've 
read his books?” 
| had indeed. 
W.J. Crawford had weighed and 
74 
results, science cannot proceed at all. So I couldn’t use 
my own failures as justifiable evidence that psi does not 
exist. I had to consider everyone else’s success. 
I asked myself a thousand times, as I ask the reader 
now: Is there a right conclusion? 
The only answer I can give, after ten years of inten- 
sive research in parapsychology, is that I don’t know. If 
you believe that psychic phenomena exist, you must con- 
front all the problems of illogical human thinking, the 
negative definitions, the difficulty of finding out anything 
about psi, and the fact that most laboratory experiments 
fail to confirm its existence. If you don’t believe in psi, 
you have to face up to all the claims that it exists and the 
impossibility of proving its nonexistence. If you decide to 
maintain an open mind, you are in for a tough task, too. 
Keeping an open mind is far harder work than becoming 
simply a believer or skeptic. Perhaps it is better never to 
ask whether psi exists! 
But there is a better question. Has belief in the exis- 
tence of psi actually done any good? Has it progressed 
our understanding of any phenomena or experiences? 
Has it ever explained anything that could not be better ex- 
plained some other way? In other words, has it ever done 
any scientific work for us? The checkered and controver- 
sial history of parapsychology may provide some an- 
swers. Aren’t we just asking the same questions parapsy- 
chologists were asking a hundred years ago? For a hun- 
dred years there have been no answers. 
My own brief career illustrates this. I began on a quest 
to understand ESP and memory. Then I turned to explor- 
ing out-of-body and near-death experiences. But the psi 
hypothesis did not help me one bit. Unfathomable and 
mystical experiences certainly abound, but I don’t think 
the idea of the paranormal helps us to understand them. 
My ten years of research have left me an open-minded 
skeptic rather than a disbeliever, but I have come to one 
conclusion: The notion of psi is remarkably unhelpful. If 
we want to understand the higher potentials of human ex- 
perience, we need a better notion. 
& 
photographed “psychic structures” emanating from the body of 
a rather attractive young medium called Kathleen Goligher. 
“Do you believe in Crawford’s results, Dr. Dingwall?” | 
asked cautiously. 
“Are there really such things as columns of 
ectoplasm and psychic rods?” 
It was extraordinary to be able 
to ask someone who had actually been involved in psychical re- 
search all that time ago. 
He gave me a penetrating look. 
“Before he died—commit- 
ted suicide, you know,” he added, rather conspiratorially, “he 
said, ‘Ding, | have to tell you something. 
It was all faked, all of 
it.’” Before | had time to ask him more he was pointing to other 
books. 
“Il used to know Aleister Crowley, too.” 
The Adventures of a 
Parapsychologist 
Susan J. Blackmore 
1986; 250 pp. 
$21.95 
($23.95 postpaid) from: 
Prometheus Books 
700 East Amherst St. 
Buffalo, NY 14215 
800/421-0351 
