could be right! What they're saying is that 
biochemists are barking up the wrong tree 
—enzyme chemical reactions can't explain 
the reactions in living cells. Instead, all of 
the little microfilaments and macromolec- 
ular structures that appear in electron 
micro-photographs are miniature electrical 
circuits, coil windings, Superconductors, 
and motors! There's plenty of philoso- 
phizing, too. A gem of fringe science! Sub- 
scriptions are $25/yr.; write for info. 
— 
Fic. 3—Two subjects in closed relaxation cireuit. 
Each subject 
with left hand (—) to head (+) and right hand (+) to spine (—) of 
other subject. 
ONE-STOP WEIRD SCIENCE SOURCE 
Borderland Sciences Research Foundation 
P.O. Box 429 
Garberville, CA 95440-0429 
Among the granddaddies of weird 
science, these guys have been around 
since 1945—long before New Age 
latecomers. They publish a backlog of 
papers on subjects like ether physics, 
radionics, dowsing, Tesla, hollow earth, 
UFOs, cancer cures, etc., etc. Their bi- 
monthly journal features nifty plans for all 
kinds of build-it-yourself devices like Jet 
Lag Neutralizers and Homo-Vibra Ray Ma- 
chines, some of which they also sell 
already assembled. The Journal of 
Borderland Research is $20/yr ($3.50/ 
sample); their "occult organ" Living Sphere 
is $25/year ($7.77/sample); write for free 
info. 
UNIVERSE TWO: 
NOT BETTER, JUST DIFFERENT 
The Quarternion Journal 
P.O. Box 315, Station A 
Vancouver, B.C. VGC 2M7, CANADA 
Devotes itself to "highly abstract possi- 
bilities in science and art." Highly abstract 
is right! Nuttiest damn theories on logic, 
reality, and the universe you could hope to 
find. Bizarre diagrams illustrating the 
foundations of existence. This is what you 
might call "naive quantum physics." $2 
per issue. 
ORGONE BLANKETS! 
MULTI-WAVE OSCILLATORS! 
FOR SALE CHEAP! 
Klark Kent Super Science 
P.O. Box 392 
Dayton, OH 45409 
Klark Kent isn't kidding around. Ready 
for the New Age business boom, he takes 
Mastercard and Visa for his wacky de- 
vices, sold for "experimental purposes 
only," you understand. The Lakhovsky 
Multi-Wave Oscillator comes built into its 
own suitcase so you can take it any- 
where—think of the commotion you'll 
cause next time you try to carry it on the 
plane. It's hard to pin Kent down on what 
exactly this $640 device is supposed to 
do, but why bother him with details? (One 
piece of literature, sent for "information 
purposes only," says it cures terminal 
cancer, arthritis, allergies—you name it.) 
And what New Age date could resist the 
line: "Wanna join me under my orgone 
blanket?" 
EARTHQUAKE, 
PHENONENA OF EARTH ELECTRICAL ENERGY 
1968 U.S. QUAKE SHAKES 22 STATES 
1967 QUAKE - COLORADOS STRONGEST 
1965 QUAKE ~ MUCH DAMAGE - SEATTLE 
1964 ALASKA QUAKE - THE BIG ONE 
1963 QUAKE IN SOUTHEAST MISSOURI 
Well VA 
yy 
Strongest 
Earthquake recorded 
in Colorado near 
Denver on Aug. 
9, 1967. Instrument at K.C. Kan. 
550 miles from the 5.3 magnitude 
quake, 
The Earth electrical energy and its major changes in direction of hori- 
zontal flow, showing an extreme reading 2 days before the Quake. 
NATURE'S MYSTERIES UNLOCKED 
WITH UNIFIED NATURAL LAWS 
Uni-Geo 
5122 Harvard 
Kansas City, MO 64133 
Matter becomes lighter before torna- 
does, but heavier before earthquakes! 
"This data cannot be refuted. .. 
. TIME is 
a great precision controlling force over a 
wild, erratic EARTH ELECTRICAL ENERGY 
which was by instruments found to have a 
controlling relationship with NATURE'S 
functions of MATTER, EVAPORATION, 
GROWTH and NATURAL DISASTERS." 
See? It all ties in. The government has 
"for 20 years of carnage" deliberately 
roadblocked the knowledge by which we 
could have predicted ALL natural disas- 
ters. This poor old dude has been totally 
and deliberately ignored by the so-called 
experts. How can you or | be sure he's 
wrong? Free info; complete data $4. 
MORE ANSWERS THAN EINSTEIN 
Kyklos Foundation 
22143 Sherman Way 
Canoga Park, CA 91303 
One thing about these weird-science 
types: they love comparing themselves to 
geniuses of the past. The Kyklos Founda- 
tion's magazine, Cycles, has headlines 
like "The Nature of the Universe! First New 
Theory Since Einstein!" It seems to exist 
for one noble purpose: to promote the 
rantings of a guy named Aldo Aulicino, 
whose picture appeared on one cover with 
the headline "Does He Really Have All the 
Answers?" Guess what the answer was. 
Most of the articles aren't signed—gee, 
who do you think writes them? 
Aldo's got this theory that in prehistoric 
times the earth was inhabited by intelli- 
gent creatures called protoceti. They had a 
big civilization, but blew it up with a nu- 
clear explosion, wiping out the dinosaurs. 
That's when they decided to move into the 
ocean and evolve into dolphins. Nowa- 
days, unbeknownst to us mortals, it's the 
superintelligent dolphins who are really 
running the show. They must have some 
sense of humor. 
The kook-spotter's giveaway about 
Cycles is that Aldo's theories take up 
about five percent of the contents. The 
rest is a mighty rant about his lofty genius 
and the myopia of the ivory-tower scien- 
tists who have failed to recognize it, with 
some random political and social opinions 
thrown in for good measure. $6/yr.; ask 
for free info. 
THEY WANT YOU TO THINK 
IT'S "SCIENCE FICTION" 
Rex Research 
P.O. Box 1258, 
Berkeley, CA 94701 
Sells reprints of technical papers about 
neglected inventions of all kinds. Many old 
studies on bio-energetics, unusual motor 
designs, suppressed miracle cures, 
forgotten doohickies, and energy genera- 
tors that may yet turn out to be the ones 
that save our planet. 
A monumental 
research job. Catalog $2. 
215 
