maximum theoretical efficiency of heat engines such as 
steam engines and automobile engines. Losses are inevi- 
table. You can’t break even. 
The third law of thermodynamics says nothing can be 
cooled to absolute zero in a finite number of steps. At ab- 
solute zero, wild and wonderful things could happen, in- 
cluding 100 percent efficient heat engines. But you can’t 
get out of the game. 
Overbalancing wheels and related devices are there- 
fore called perpetual motion machines of the first kind. 
Impossible heat engines (discussed later) are perpetual 
motion machines of the second kind. So far as I know, 
no one has yet attempted to build a perpetual motion 
machine of the third kind. 
The informed public gradually came to accept that 
energy is unlikely to be created from nothing. This gen- 
eral understanding, of course, did not end the search for 
perpetual motion, but it changed the way most perpetual 
motionists pitched their products. The first and most suc- 
cessful of the new breed was John Ernst Worrell Keely of 
Philadelphia, America’s most successful perpetual 
motionist. 
' The Keely Motor 
John Keely, born in Philadelphia on September 3, 
1837, was six feet tall and extremely muscular. A skillful 
craftsman, he spent his early adult years as a carpenter 
and general mechanic. More important than his skill with 
tools was his skill with words. A charismatic personality, 
he spoke a mixture of simple English and arcane jargon 
most listeners found confusing but convincing. Keely’s 
innovation was that he did not claim to create energy from 
nothing. Rather, he could liberate existing energy from 
nature. 
Keely first gained public notice with his “Hydro- 
Pneumatic-Pulsating-Vacuo-Engine,” which he claimed 
was powered by the “disintegration” of ordinary water. A 
beautifully wrought mechanism of brass and copper, the 
engine had two cylinders, connecting-rods, eccentrics, a 
flywheel, and miscellaneous appurtenances of unknown 
function. Investors were impressed by Keely’s demon- 
strations of the motor, and the rights to the invention were 
assigned to five individuals on February 24, 1872. This 
partnership evolved into the Keely Motor Company, a 
joint stock company with a capital of $5,000,000. All the 
money went to Keely’s salary, to building his laboratory, 
and to building further demonstration devices—the 
“Compound Disintegrator,” the “Liberator,” and so forth. 
By 1881, Keely had produced talk and models but no 
product. Some were beginning to suspect fraud, and 
Keely exacerbated these suspicions by refusing to reveal 
his secret technology to anyone. The stockholders re- 
volted, but Keely would not relent. Indeed, he abandoned 
his disintegration research and left them holding a bag of 
water vapor. Being musically inclined, Keely began seek- 
ing vibratory energy, a new and different technology in 
which (he claimed) the Keely Motor Company had no 
rights or interest. (The stockholders took him to court 
over this, and they lost!) His talk about etheric vibrations 
and such convinced Theosophists and like-minded people 
that he had discovered a new and mystical force in nature. 
(The redoubtable Madame Helena Petrovna Blavatsky 
endorsed Keely’s work in The Secret Doctrine, the Theo- 
sophical Bible.) 
Keely’s most enthusiastic and faithful new supporter 
was Mrs. Clara Bloomfield Moore, a successful poet and 
novelist who had been left multiple millions by a recently 
deceased husband. Mrs. Moore promoted Keely’s work 
in Theosophical journals like Lucifer and provided large 
sums for research. Keely provided models of motors, 
cannons, and miscellaneous devices, all of which operated 
impressively in his laboratory. Keely would strike a tun- 
ing fork and a motor would begin turning, or some such 
thing. The press reaction was mixed. A. Wilford Hall’s 
Scientific Arena described Keely’s devices enthusiastical- 
ly; Scientific American described them scathingly. Skep- 
ticism abounded, and in February 1896 Mrs. Moore sent 
the English physicist W. Lascelles-Scott to study Keely’s 
devices and report. A month later, he told the Franklin In- 
stitute, “Keely has demonstrated to me, in a way which is 
absolutely unquestionable, the existence of a force hith- 
erto unknown.” 
Another physicist, one E.C. Scott, was unconvinced. 
He and many others suspected that some of the wires and 
rods on Keely’s devices were in fact hollow tubes bearing 
compressed air. (This Keely vigorously denied.) Scott 
suggested a simple test. Keely would repeat one of the 
demonstrations performed for Lascelles-Scott and, while 
it was in progress, Mrs. Moore would personally cut a 
particularly suspicious “rod” on the apparatus. Keely 
haughtily refused, and Mrs. Moore virtually cut off his 
support. 
=: 
123 
