TION 
Soon began a flood of mail. An Oklahoma lawyer 
sent me patent drawings for his perpetual motion machine 
and tried to convince me to write about it. A priest and a 
violinist lauded me for the unselfish way I gave my inven- 
tion to the world, instead of trying to make money on it. 
Some letter writers argued that the machine couldn’t pos- 
sibly work; others wanted more information. Over thirty 
letters came in all, plus three phone calls. 
My experience with the Schadewald Gravity Engine 
showed me how easy it is to sell perpetual motion, even 
when you’re only trying to make people laugh. I began 
looking for modern perpetual motion schemes, and I 
found them aplenty in newspapers, magazines, and televi- 
sion news shows. Before discussing modern schemes, 
however, a bit of history may be helpful. 
Energy shortages are nothing new. The Romans built 
mills driven by water wheels, and the construction seems 
to have continued during the Dark Ages. By 1086 a.p., 
when England’s Domesday Book (a sort of census report) 
was written, there were 5,624 water-powered mills in the 
kingdom. This growth continued, and soon there were no 
more good mill sites left. The same phenomenon occur- 
red in continental Europe. This dam shortage seems to 
have inspired the search for perpetual motion. 
Many inventors tried to design a water wheel that 
could both power a mill and pump enough water to run 
itself. In 1618, the alchemist and occultist Robert Fludd 
described an overshot water wheel that would power a 
mill and also drive an Archimedean screw-type pump to 
transport the water back to the flume. The basic idea was 
common and obvious, and Georg Andreas Boeckler de- 
scribed and illustrated several self-pumping mills in his 
Theatrum Machinarum Novum, published in 1686. No 
one ever succeeded in making such a mill work, despite 
numerous attempts. Nevertheless, the hope remains alive 
to this day, and later we’ll look at a modern “self-con- 
tained hydroelectric power system” supposed to pump its 
own water. 
Probably no idea is dearer to the hearts of perpetual 
motionists than the venerable “overbalancing wheel,” a 
vertical wheel equipped with movable weights that are 
supposed to constantly shift position so that the wheel is 
always heavier on one side than the other. The earliest 
surviving description of a perpetual motion scheme, con- 
tained in a fifth-century Sanskrit astronomical text, the 
Siddhanta Ciromani, is a variation on this theme. Edward 
The Perpetual 
Qu e S t by Robert Schadewald 
Somerset, Second Marquis of Worcester (1601-1667), had 
such an overbalancing wheel built in the tower of London, 
where he demonstrated it to King Charles I and his court 
sometime in the 1640s. Somerset later described the dem- 
onstration in a book commonly known as Century of In- 
ventions, published in 1655: 
They all saw, that no sooner these great weights passed 
the Diameter-line of their lower side, but they hung a 
foot further from the Centre, nor no sooner passed the 
Diameter-line of the upper side, but they hung a foot 
nearer. Be pleased to judge the consequence. 
We are indeed pleased to judge the consequence, and 
itis nil. (The same cannot be said of other Somerset in- 
ventions; he designed an early forerunner of the steam en- 
gine.) Numerous schemes have been devised for shifting 
the weights on an overbalancing wheel as described, and 
they have one thing in common: they don’t work. 
A perennially favorite variation is a vertical wheel 
having curved internal spokes with balls, which can roll 
between the hub and the rim. The designer—his name is 
Legion—hopes to produce a constant out-of-balance con- 
dition. Analysis of such a device typically shows that at a 
crucial point in the cycle, each weight has to be “helped 
over the hump” Once started, momentum does the job 
SCHADEWALD GRAVITY ENGINE 
The Schadewald 
Gravity 
Engine is based on a famous 
conjecture by the late British 
physicist P.A.M. Dirac that the 
“universal 
gravitation 
con- 
converted to potential energy, 
and the wheel slows down. But 
for every revolution, g, is less 
then g,, so the wheel must gain 
speed with each revolution. 
stant” G is in fact slowly de- 
creasing. If true, it follows from 
high-school physics that g, the 
acceleration due to gravity at a 
given point on earth, is also 
decreasing. 
mass ™ 
Consider then a 
wheel of diameter h with a heavy 
weight 
m 
attached 
to 
its 
periphery. As the weight rotates 
from top to bottom, potential 
energy 
equal 
to 
mg,h 
is 
converted to kinetic energy, and 
the wheel speeds up. 
As the 
weight rotates back to the top, 
kinetic energy equal to mg,h is 
