photography was the popular equivalent in those 
days of psychics’ key-bending stunts now. 
Some of my earliest reading materials were the 
“psychic books’’ that filled my family’s bookcases. 
In one of them, | ran across an engraving of my 
great-grandfather, Emerson J. MacRobert, a Spirit- 
ualist in London, Ontario. At a time when such 
activities were scandalous and possibly illegal, he 
had held seances in a top-floor room of an old 
house with velvet tacked over the windows. Word 
got out and he was nearly forced from his post on 
the London School Board by righteous churchgoers. 
In my childhood reading, | also ran across an old 
reference to something called a ‘“Treborcam 
Ethereal Healing Machine.’’ The name is my 
own spelled backwards. 
Descended from two generations of Spiritualists, 
my father was always noncommittal. He had run 
across plenty of frauds and exaggerations, but, 
even at its best, the Society for Psychical Research 
seemed only able to draw blanks. Under close 
scrutiny, psychics failed because they were ‘“‘having 
a bad day’’ or because their powers were impeded 
by the presence of skeptics. Modern parapsycho- 
logists excuse the “nonrepeatability”’ of their 
experiments with much the same rationale. 
This lifetime exposure to the paranormal has left 
me somewhat disillusioned and impatient with the 
intellectual credulity of my generation — no im- 
provement on that of my grandfather’s. Still, I’m 
ready for the day when UFO creatures land on the 
White House lawn and are interviewed by Dan 
Rather, or when one single psychic somewhere can 
predict the future or reliably levitate paper clips 
so that anyone can see it’s so. In the meantime, 
here, culled from all the time I’ve spent in the 
Search, are some guidelines by which to evaluate 
the flood of paranormal claims. These guidelines, 
carefully applied, should help eliminate the claims 
that are worthless — at least 98 percent of them 
— and will provide grounds for evaluating anything 
that’s left. 
188 
Leela the O 
Almost everyone with a paranormal theory to 
tout, | have discovered, is unwilling to scrutinize 
the phenomenon. Whatever the claim, chances are 
he won't examine it closely even when he gets an 
excellent chance to do so. | get the impression 
that, deep down, paranormal claimants are afraid 
they'll see there’s nothing there. Because science, 
the art of looking carefully to determine the truth, is 
precisely what they’re afraid of, they'll reject its 
ability to assess their claim, perhaps with a snide 
reference to the inadequacy of ‘“‘linear, left-brain, 
Western science.”’ 
Somebody Else Is On the Moon contains a fine ex- 
ample of this fear of scrutiny. Ali of Leonard’s 
moon constructions are at the very limit of photo 
resolution. When he had a chance to get better 
photos and to see the same terrain more clearly, 
he didn’t. 
On the other hand, you might expect John Taylor, 
a physicist the New Scientist called one of the top 
20 scientists in the world, to be suspicious of psy- 
chics who attempted to avoid his close scrutiny. 
Yet his 1975 book Superminds enthusiastically 
described his experiments with ‘‘Geller children,” 
kids who could bend forks and spoons ‘‘psycho- 
kinetically,”’ just like Uri Geller. The trouble was, 
they could only do it when no one was looking. 
Taylor even gave this aversion to scientific scrutiny 
a name: the “‘shyness effect.’ He accomodatingly 
designed ‘‘sealed’’ tubes with the objects to be 
bent placed inside, and sent them home with the 
children. When they returned bent the next day, 
still sealed in the tubes, he considered this proof 
of psychic abilities. 
Taylor refused to see the magician, the Amazing 
Randi, who felt he could explain the shyness ef- 
fect in more prosaic terms: cheating. Perhaps 
Taylor himself had become afraid of close scrutiny. 
Randi called on him anyway, disguised as a reporter, 
and found Taylor particularly easy to fool. In his 
book The Truth About Uri Geller, Randi describes 
having no trouble at all opening and closing the 
crudely sealed tubes in Taylor’s presence, even 
managing to bend an aluminum bar while Taylor 
was momentarily distracted, scratch on it “Bent 
by Randi,’’ and replace it among Taylor’s collec- 
tion undetected! 
The final blow to Taylor’s shyness effect occurred 
when an alternative team of scientists decided to 
replicate Taylor’s findings. Six of his metal-bending 
prodigies were tested in a room with one observer, 
who noticed no cheating even though “psychoki- 
netic’’ metal-bending occurred repeatedly. But a 
hidden camera recorded the truth about the shy- 
ness effect, as reported by the investigators in the 
September 4, 1975, issue of the scientific journal 
Nature: “A put the rod under her foot and tried 
