Over and Out 
When all is said and done, there is an exceed- 
ingly fine line between discovering conspiracies and 
seizing upon scapegoats. Yet without a “big picture” 
within which to fit such a multitude of revelations, 
most Americans seem to recoil in confusion and cyni- 
cism, certain of little except that their trust has been 
betrayed by someone. Accordingly, the congressional 
inquiry into the Warren Commission's report on the 
Kennedy assassination could ultimately conclude in 
1979 that JFK’s death probably was the result of a 
conspiracy after all—surely a staggering revision of 
recent history—only to be met by yawns, head- 
scratching, and shrugs. 
It is to the credit of the conspiracy buffs that they 
The Journal of Historical Review ana 
Confessions of a Holocaust Revisionist 
Declare that the earth is flat, that eyeglasses are actually 
an obstacle to good eyesight, or that Christ has returned as a 
Korean munitions-maker, and most Americans will defend your 
right to your opinion, as hare-brained as they may find it to be. 
However, most people’s patience with unpopular opinions be- 
gins to run out about the time that someone gets up and asks 
“Did six million Jews really die at the hands of the Nazis?” 
Not only does the question seem superfluous, but it is highly 
offensive as well. 
The Journal of Historical Review has the singular distinc- 
tion of asking that very question and related ones such as 
“What actual evidence exists of Nazi gas chambers? How did 
they supposedly operate? Are some survivor/witness testimo- 
nies exaggerated?” Those who delve into such questions call 
themselves “Historical Revisionists,” a label also shared by 
some historians who have called the popular interpretations of 
the Cold War into question over the past few decades. 
For 
their efforts the Journal’s publisher, the Institute for Historical 
Review, has had its offices fire-bombed, its conference venues 
suddenly cancelled, and its books unofficially banned from 
most bookstores. 
That’s unpopular! 
Who are these Revisionists? Some academics, some 
amateur historians, some far rightists (and a couple of far left- 
ists), and several libertarians. 
Are they worth listening to? 
That depends on your tolerance for having your world turned 
upside down. Some Revisionists have engaged in careful 
studies and on-site forensic investigations, and have drawn 
conclusions that are not easily dismissed even though they fly 
in the face of conventional history. 
Other Revisionists, espe- 
cially the Germanophiles, load their carts with plenty of politi- 
cal baggage and invite you to help pull it. The sum total is a 
disturbing mix of the ridiculous and the sublime. 
If you are in- 
clined to write off the Revisionists as pernicious extremists— 
as most people do—you might do well to read the JHR first 
and draw your conclusions firsthand. 
Journal subscriptions 
include the IHR Newsletter which comes out eight times a 
year. 
For a riveting look inside the mind of a public spokesman 
for Revisionism, track down Confessions of a Holocaust 
Revisionist by Bradley Smith. Smith is a libertarian and 
former bookseller from southern California who was once on 
trial for selling Henry Miller’s Tropic of Cancer. 
Volume One 
of Smith’s memoirs reveals the episodes and stages that he 
went through on his way to being convinced that the standard 
history of the Holocaust may have more holes and contradic- 
tions to it than we commonly assume. 
Smith, who has ap- 
peared numerous times on TV and radio talk shows defending 
at least try to give a shape to othemise isolated 
events and draw properly indignant conclusions from 
the evidence of back-room power plays. Yet, this 
said, it is also the tragedy of most conspiracy theo- 
ries that their overly simple contours and conclusions 
repeatedly slide into a reactionary paranoia, which in 
turn is ripe for exploitation by authoritarian dema- 
gogues. 
lf cancer is the twentieth century’s outstanding 
disease of the body, then paranoia is the favored dis- 
ease of the mind. Small wonder that those most 
worried about cancer in the body politic are also the 
most susceptible to political paranoia and unortho- 
dox cures. 
Still, it’s worth keeping the old saying in 
mind, “Just because you’re paranoid doesn’t mean 
you’re not being watched!” 
a 
Revisionism, emerges here as a down-to-earth sort with a dis- 
arming lack of guile and a sardonic (and occasionally tas- 
teless) sense of humor. 
If the Journal of Historical Review 
provides the best overview of the phenomenon of Revisionism, 
Bradley Smith’s Confessions provides the best underview. 
—Mike Williams 
e 
The truth is that Hitler treated the Jews as his declared 
enemies, that he wanted to drive them out of Europe, and that 
he put many of them in labor and concentration camps. Some 
of the camps had crematoria for burning bodies. 
None of 
them had a homicidal gas chamber. The existence of the al- 
leged gas slaughterhouses is impossible for physical, chemi- 
cal, topographical, architectural, and documentary reasons. 
The fate of the Jews was atrocious, but not unusually so. 
Consider the fate of the German children killed or wounded by 
phosphorous bombs or of those slaughtered at the time of 
their "transfer" from East to West between 1945 and 1947! 
—Journal of Historical Review 
e 
|f there had been no gas chambers, no programmed exter- 
mination of Jews, then the German-Jewish scenario in Eastern 
Europe, while it would remain a cruel and ugly affair, would 
make some sense. 
European Jews would not have acted out 
then the part of inexplicably pathetic, robotized victims. 
Jew- 
ish mothers then would not have participated passively in the 
alleged destruction of a million of their children. 
Millions of 
Jewish men would not have collaborated with Germans in the 
mass extinction of their own families without having risen up 
en masse to die defending them. Jewish elders then would 
not have acted with such stupefied credulity in advising their 
people. 
—Confessions of a Holocaust Revisionist 
Journal of Historical Review 
and IHR Newsletter 
Theodore J. O'Keefe, Editor 
$40 /year 
(4 Journals and 8 Newsletters) from: 
Institute for Historical Review 
1822 1/2 Newport BI. Suite 191, 
Costa Mesa, CA 92627 
Confessions of a 
Holocaust Revisionist 
Bradley Smith 
1987; 123 pp. 
$6.95 
($8.95 postpaid) from: 
Prima Facie 
P.O. Box 931089-1 
Los Angeles, CA 90093 
