\ 
about how she had been struggling to make ends meet since 
her husband’s oil wells went bust. 
“Everything that you ever needed to explore about your 
personal growth in relationship to money will come up in 
this process,” Morning Star reportedly explained. “And 
don’t you deserve to have money—just for being?” 
“Morning Star seemed frantic—almost desperate,” the 
woman remembered. “She kept saying it was the energy, but 
she was rubbing her hands together like she was playing 
craps.” 
According to some, the game came to Marin from Hous- 
ton, while the East Bay promoters hailed from Denver. I 
wasn’t able to trace that connection. It hardly matters; pyra- 
mid games are like bacteria—they can catch on and prolif- 
erate anywhere. When the pool of available investors no 
longer satisfies the pyramid’s appetite, someone moves the 
game on. 
Had we already reached that point in the East Bay? Af- 
ter only six weeks—I’d been along for two of them—the 
game was beginning to wither. Perhaps the East Bay, I 
suggested to Icarus, was not a very efficient place to run a 
pyramid game. 
“No, it’s not!” he laughed. “The commitment to commu- 
nity is too powerful. In the end, the money’s going to get 
redistributed. There are already people reinvesting every 
dime they’ve got, because they couldn’t live with it if their 
friends lost money.” 
“That’s nuts—it really will go on forever that way,” I 
said. 
“But it’s ttue—people who have been in it from the start 
are still in it. And they’re exhausted. I’1l bet there are people 
who would gladly give back all the money and just say, 
‘Listen, could you redistribute all this properly so I can go 
home and get some rest?’” 
Icarus was too charitable. During one of the later meet- 
ings, when it seemed clear that the game was trucking along 
about as speedily as a salted snail, I asked several groups of 
people if they would consent to Icarus’s plan of shaking 
hands, redistributing the money, and getting on with their 
lives. 
They looked at me as if I were a Morton Thiokol engineer 
suggesting that an O-ring might freeze. “Oh, no, no!” they 
exclaimed impatiently. “We want to play!” 
next meeting, “and realized that money represents 
everything in my being. I have come to see the 
money as energy. The more I grow with this proc- 
ess, the more I feel comfortable accepting the money.” 
Several workshops down the line, as more and more 
students hovered on the brink of dropping out, he expanded 
this philosophy to include a new definition of greed: “The 
real greed,” he expostulated, “comes when we back out of a 
process that’s helping us expand.” Blue Pearl then shared an 
aspect of his own growth. Previously, he had felt the need to 
give part of his bounty to charity “as a means to feel good 
about myself.” But by the last meeting I attended, Blue Pearl 
had evolved so dramatically that he could now unhesitat- 
ingly keep all the cash for himself. 
Blue Pearl’s insipid satori notwithstanding, I could not 
40 
4 
[| 
have looked inside myself,” Blue Pearl said at the 
deny that people were gaining legitimate insights from the 
often frustrating—but always dynamic—“process.” Carou- 
sel reflected that the game made her realize that cash was not 
a “lump” that sat in a bank, but “a liquid thing.” “Another as- 
pect,” Pennies from Heaven pointed out, “is time. It’s inter- 
esting how I’ve made time for this, even though I was already 
overcommitted. I’ve learned that I can free up my time for 
processes that are important to me.” 
Even the agonizing process of combing 
through Rolodexes in the hopes of enroll- 
ing friends and acquaintances had les- 
sons to offer. Three women, for 
example, claimed that 
the task had in- 
creased 
their 
self-confi- 
dence 
and 
taught them 
how to hold 
their ground in the 
face of adversity. 
And there were indeed examples of relatively 
pure altruism. In Marin, where the game was flying at a 
steady throttle through the lesbian and feminist 
communities, groups were reshuffled so 
that women with critical finan- 
cial needs could cash 
in almost im- 
mediately. 
In San 
Francisco, 
a woman 
submitted 
a 
proposal to start a 
foundation that would “maximize our intent and ca- 
pability of truly redistributing money and power in society.” 
|
Finally, players at every stage of the pyramid were learn- 
ing difficult but useful lessons about risk taking, greed, 
and—most painful of all—the strength of their friendships. 
|
‘A few people who I thought were my friends,” Icarus told 
me, “look at my involvement in this and say, ‘Well, the very 
|
fact that you’re doing this means you must be a scumbag.’ 
|
Conversely, I’m discovering who my real friends are—who 
will stand by me and trust me, even when they choose to dis- 
|
agree with me. 
|
“T haven’t piloted out yet,” he said, reverting to the less 
|
bombastic jargon of the initial game, “and even if I don’t 
|
make anything I will still say, in absolute good faith, that this 
was totally worth it. That’s why I’m resentful of the media. 
I read moralistic accounts that leave no room for what I’m 
|
going through. You’re either a manipulator or a dupe. It’s 
just too simplistic.” 
t was an article about the pyramid game in the Oakland 
Tribune that first encouraged me to look at the phenome- 
non and its players in a more equitable light. While lying 
in bed reading 
that particular Sunday edition—February 
22, 1987—I discovered that I could see right through the 
page to the Lotto numbers printed on the other side. 
Gambling is gambling, and it was clear that those who 
