The UFO Experience 
In what is arguably the single best “pro-UFO” book, the 
late J. Allen Hynek—the man who invented the term “close 
encounters of the third kind”—attempts to demonstrate that 
the core of UFO reports that cannot be explained represents 
an important phenomenon unknown to science. Hynek had 
credentials that were hard to ignore: an astronomer at North- 
western University and scientific consultant on UFOs to the 
U.S. Air Force for twenty years, during which he was converted 
from skeptic to “believer.” The UFO Experience is a rational, 
persuasive book with fantastic implications. Read it and see 
if you can still say, “There’s nothing to the UFO phenomenon.” 
—T.S. 
e 
The markings on the ground are discovered almost imme- 
diately in the daytime cases and the following morning in the 
more frequent nighttime sightings. Natural curiosity draws the 
The UFO Experience 
A Scientific Inquiry 
J. Allen Hynek 
1972, 1977; 309 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Ballantine Books 
New York, NY 
witnesses to the landing spot, and there they generally find a 
marking that fits a general pattern: either a circular patch, 
uniformly depressed, burned, or dehydrated, or a ring the over- 
all diameter of which can be 30 feet or more but which itself 
is 1 to 3 feet in thickness (that is, the inner and outer diame- 
ters of the ring differ by that amount, while the ring itself may 
be quite large). The most frequently reported diameters are 
20-30 feet. 
It is almost universally reported that the rings per- 
Sist for weeks or months—sometimes years—and that the in- 
terior of the ring or sometimes the whole circle remains barren 
for a season or two. 
William L. Moore Publications 
William Moore is a thorough investigator and a controver- 
sial figure in ufology, especially for his recent championing of 
the “MJ-12” documents, purported to demonstrate that the 
military secretly retrieved a crashed flying saucer and its alien 
crew in 1947. Moore offers a large variety of unusual publica- 
tions, books, and even videotapes on some of the more in- 
triguing mysteries of ufology. He also publishes a monthly 
newsletter, Focus. 
—T.S. 
William L. Moore 
Both from: 
5 
p 
William L. Moore Publications 
Berar 
4219 West Olive Avenue 
Catalog 
Suite 247 
Focus 
Burbank, CA 91505 
Jimmy Moore and 
William L. Moore, Editors 
$20/year (12 issues) 
The Encyclopedia of UFOs 
At 500,000 words this is one of the longest UFO books 
ever published and, though flawed, will have to do as the stan- 
dard reference until something better comes along. Its en- 
tries include the major cases up till the late 1970s, personali- 
ties, theories, and essays on relevant issues. These last are 
the most appealing part of the book; consulting editor Richard 
Greenwell’s entry on the “Extraterrestrial Hypothesis” 
is (along 
with Dr. Michael D. Swords’s “The Third Option: How They Got 
Here, and Why,” International UFO Reporter, January/Febru- 
ary, 1987) as fine a concise analysis of that idea as you’re 
going to find anywhere. Among the least satisfactory entries 
are some by editor Story himself, a ufological novice who 
seems not to have fully mastered his material and who man- 
ages to make some whopping errors (asserting, for example, 
that there were no UFO-related humanoid reports prior to 
1949, when in fact a number of such accounts are in the lit- 
erature). 
His eight-paragraph entry on contactees (persons 
claiming regular communications with angelic, long-winded 
spacefolk), a subject meriting far more, is superficial and 
naive, taking no note, for example, of the pioneering studies 
of religious scholars such as J. Gordon Melton and the late 
David Stupple. Much valuable space is wasted on long “posi- 
tion statements” 
by individuals who have nothing interesting 
to Say. 
Still, there is much of worth here and for the most part 
the speculation is reasonable and the history accurate (if not 
always complete). 
It sure beats plowing through scads of 
books and obscure magazines in search of some elusive cryp- 
tofact. By now, however, the Encyclopedia is dated. The 
1980s have proven an extraordinarily eventful time in ufology, 
and a new reference work correcting the old one’s shortcom- 
ings and covering the intervening decade's developments is 
sorely needed. 
—Jerome Clark 
e 
In considering the extraterrestrial hypothesis for UFOs, 
then, it should be recognized that: 
(1) there are many likely locations for the emergence of 
life in our galaxy, as well as in other galaxies; 
The Encyclopedia of UFOs 
Ronald D. Story, Editor 
1980; 440 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Dolphin Books 
Doubleday & Company, Inc. 
Garden City, New York 
(2) the emergence of life does not necessarily imply the 
eventual evolution of intelligent species; 
(3) if such intelligences have evolved in the galaxy, or in 
other galaxies, they have already existed as such for far longer 
periods than the existence of Homo sapiens; 
(4) one can only speculate over the biological, social, or 
technical development of such hypothetical intelligences; 
(5) average distances between stars are enormous, but 
factors such as moving entire societies, time dilation, sus- 
pended animation, biomagnetic levitation, and prolongevity 
would reduce or even eliminate the distance problem; 
(6) our understanding of processes in the Universe is still 
relatively poor, and it is premature to decide at this time what 
is “possible” or what is “impossible”; 
(7) any statement categorically rejecting the hypothesis 
that UFOs may represent some form of interstellar visitation is 
simplistic and is not based on a critical evaluation and synthe- 
sis of all relevant factors; 
(8) any acceptance of UFOs as representing extraterres- 
trial visitation, based on the available evidence, can only be 
construed as a belief unsupported by established facts. 
The emotional commitment on the part of those speculat- 
ing on the ETH, positively or negatively, is not likely to dimin- 
ish as long as UFOs continue to be reported, and there is no 
indication that reports are decreasing with the advent of a bet- 
ter-informed public and a more sophisticated Earth-based 
technology. (J. Richard Greenwell) 
161 
E
PT E
TSA
TTT
TER
ROTOR 
EAP
DEP 
AAE 
