FROM INDIA TO THE PLANET MARS 
Most 19th-century spiritualists chan- 
neled “spirit guides” whose origins char- 
acterized the exoticism of the day: de- 
ceased American Indians, Tibetans, “Hin- 
doos,” and the like. In contrast, today’s 
channeled beings mirror our science-fic- 
tional times: “entities” from other dimen- 
sions, royalty from imaginary civiliza- 
tions, and beings from outer space. But at 
least one turn-of-the-century medium 
scooped everyone by channeling Mar- 
tians. In his 1901 classic, 
From India to 
the Planet Mars (New York: Harper), 
psychologist Theodore Flournoy de- 
scribes his two-year case study of “He- 
lene Smith” (real name: Catherine-Elise 
Miiller), a particularly dramatic French 
Swiss medium whose exceptional ability 
to enter a trance state produced, besides 
Martians, visitations from earthly person- 
ages like Calgiostro, Marie Antoinette, 
and “Simandini” (a 15th-century Indian 
princess). 
Mademoiselle Smith’s rich visions of 
Mars included “carriages without horses 
or wheels, emitting sparks as they glided 
by; houses with fountains on the roof; a 
cradle having for curtains an angel made 
of iron with outstretched wings.” Lakes 
were blue-pink, the ground peach-col- 
He was the Reverend Bourne. As far as James, who in- 
vestigated the case firsthand, could tell, the Reverend had 
felt increasingly troubled and harried in Greene, and the 
fugue was his mind’s only way of escaping from these 
problems. 
In Rev. Bourne’s case, only two alternate personalities 
existed, each unaware of the other. In the case of Billy 
Milligan, there were twenty-four separate but interacting 
personalities, including males and females of all different 
ages and “appearances.” In the case of “Sybil,” there 
were sixteen. A common feature of most multiple-per- 
ored, the sky greenish-yellow. Martians, 
who looked just like humans, wore large 
robes, flat hats, and sandals. A Martian 
named Astané used a hand-held flying 
machine that looked like a carriage-lan- 
tern. Through automatic painting, Mlle. 
Smith produced full-color representations 
of Martian houses, plants, and animals. 
Most interesting of all, she spoke and 
wrote in the Martian language on many 
occasions. 
Flournoy painstakingly recorded and 
studied the trance languages of Mlle. 
Smith. Through careful analysis, he dem- 
onstrated that, though her “Martian” lan- 
guage sounded and looked quite alien, it 
was an exact analogue of both written and 
spoken French, Mlle. Smith’s native 
(Above) Paintings of 
Martian architecture 
and landscape by the 
turn-of-the-century 
medium Helene Smith. 
(Right) The “Martian 
alphabet” of Mile. 
Smith, along with 
psychologist Theodore 
Flournoy’s transliter- 
ation into French. 
LS 1V¥68s 
GON CE 
A 
ee ae a 
. ch 
y- of 
tnifale 
Vo <sdoublesss 
S signe du pluriel 
tongue. Each Martian letter had its 
equivalent in French, and the syntax was 
also identical. Apparently, Mlle. Smith’s 
unconscious mind had invented and re- 
membered what was essentially a written 
and spoken code. 
Even though she believed they had 
been married in a previous incarnation, 
when Flournoy’s book was published 
Mlle. Smith would have nothing more to 
do with him. She was outraged by his 
finding that her phenomena were not 
“real,” but psychological in nature. Mlle. 
Smith’s later life fades into obscurity, but 
we have Flournoy to thank for an in- 
depth account of a case of channeling that 
foreshadowed by eighty years the shape 
of things to come. 
—TS. 
GGE? 
SLaC 
gh tighl an 
ce. Ike 
sonality patients is a severely brutal period during child- 
hood, which psychologists theorize may deprive the vic- 
tims of appropriate adult role models. In the words of 
Stanford psychologist Ernest Hilgard, for the vicitim of a 
violent or severely disturbed youth, “the identification fig- 
ures of childhood do not permit clear identifications and 
hence do not lead to a satisfactorily integrated personal- 
ity.” Interestingly, Margo Chandley, who wrote a doctoral 
dissertation on channeling at Southern California’s Inter- 
national College, says that most of the channels she has 
studied were also abused or neglected children. 
Cm 
37 
