Otherworld Journeys 
Otherworld Journeys is about people who die and come 
back—well, almost die. 
It compares medieval and modern ac- 
counts, showing how the differences are shaped by the imagi- 
nation and world-view of the individual, which are in turn 
shaped by the age and culture in which the individual lives. 
For instance, there’s lots of hellish atonement in the medieval 
stories, but nowadays less accounting for sins is required be- 
fore you get to feel good. The unchanging feature of both the 
medieval and modern accounts is that the person who has 
experienced an “otherworld journey” is profoundly changed by 
the deep spiritual nature of the experience. 
—John Coate 
e 
Although medieval hell and purgatory scenes find scarcely 
any counterparts in the near-death testimony collected by 
[Raymond A.] Moody and his colleagues, motifs of paradise 
topography are much the same in both periods: shining edi- 
fices, gardens, meadows, heavenly cities, and so forth. 
In 
addition, the ultimate experience of contemplative vision, 
The Terror That Comes in the Night 
“You are dreaming and you feel as if someone is holding 
you down. 
You can do nothing—only cry out. People believe 
that you will die if you are not awakened.” That’s how one per- 
son described the “incubus,” night “mare,” “witch-rider,” or 
“Old Hag,” all names for the gut-chilling transcultural tradition 
of supernatural assault-in-the-night that is the subject of folk- 
lorist David Hufford’s book. 
Starting with Old Hag accounts 
from Newfoundland and drawing upon extensive first-person 
interviews, folk tales, and modern scientific sleep research, 
Hufford demonstrates that this peculiar belief has a long his- 
torical tradition, is widely known in many cultures, and may 
have a physiological basis in “hypnagogic sleep paralysis.” 
Sweet dreams... 
—T.S. 
e 
Well, | had a witch or something ride me once. 
| don’t 
know what the deuce it was. 
| heard it before day in the morn- 
ing . 
. 
. lt come up on the bed, and | could feel it when it 
eee 
A Lycanthropy Reader 
I'll admit I’ve known a few flirtatious foxes and some ar- 
dent wolves, but a full-moon-baying, graveyard-lurking, raw- 
meat-eating werewolf has never trotted across my path. 
Though far more prevalent in medieval and Renaissance 
times, people suffering from the psychological disorder called 
“lycanthropy” still exist. 
This fascinating collection of myths 
and legends, medieval and modern medical cases, historical 
trial records and accounts, contemporary sightings, and philo- 
sophical and theological interpretations expertly leads you 
through a macabre world, and provides rich and satisfying 
reading. 
—Susan Erkel Ryan 
e 
A 49-year-old woman [was] presented on an urgent basis 
for psychiatric evaluation because of delusions of being a wolf 
and “feeling like an animal with claws.” 
She suffered from ex- 
treme apprehension and felt that she was no longer in control 
of her own fate: she said, “A voice was coming out of me.” 
Throughout her 20-year marriage she experienced compulsive 
urges toward bestiality, lesbianism, and adultery. 
The patient chronically ruminated and dreamed about 
wolves. One week before her admission, she acted on these 
ruminations for the first time. At a family gathering, she dis- 
robed, assumed the female sexual posture of a wolf, and of- 
fered herself to her mother. 
This episode lasted for approxi- 
mately 20 minutes. The following night, after coitus with her 
husband, the patient suffered a 2-hour episode, during which 
time she growled, scratched, and gnawed at the bed. She 
Otherworld Journeys 
Accounts of Near-Death Experience 
in Medieval and Modern Times 
Carol Zaleski 
1987; 275 pp. 
$21.95 postpaid from: 
Oxford University Press 
1600 Pollitt Dr. 
Fairlawn, NJ 07410 
800/451-7556 
though treated only rarely and briefly by medieval otherworld 
journey narratives, is consistently described as a comprehen- 
sive vision of the whole, in which cognitive and affective pow- 
ers fuse. 
It is 
amoment when the dramatic action of the oth- 
erworld journey seems to be suspended and unmediated 
awareness floods in; but an instant later the play resumes, a 
message is formulated, and the visionary feels compelled, 
against his desires, to return to life. 
The Terror That Comes in the Night 
David J. Hufford 
1982; 352 pp. 
$29.95 ($31.90 postpaid) from: 
University of Pennsylvania Press 
Attn: Order Dept. 
418 Sewice Drive 
Blockley Hall, 13th Floor 
Philadelphia, PA 19104-6097 
215/898-6291 
pressed the bed—me and another fellow was in the bed to- 
|
gether. And it got up on me, and / couldn’t say a word. | lay 
|
flat on my back, and | commenced a-twisting this a-way and a- 
whining in my sleep—“ennh, ennh, ennh”—and this boy 
ketched me. And | heard the thing when it hit the floor, ‘bout 
like a big rat—bip—and out the door it went; you could hear it 
go on out. 
| said, “You better go, you devil you.” (Laughter.) 
It was about four o’clock in the morning. That’s true. 
stated that the devil came into her body and she became an 
animal. 
Simultaneously, she experienced auditory hallucina- 
tions. There was no drug involvement or alcoholic intoxica- 
|
tion. 
Lycaon transformed by Jupiter into a werewolf, 
A Lycanthropy 
from Ovid's Metamorphoses (London, 1717). 
Reader 
Werewolves in 
Western Culture 
Charlotte F. 
Otten, Editor 
1986; 352 pp. 
$14.95 
($16.45 postpaid) 
from: Syracuse 
University Press 
1600 Jamesville Ave. 
Syracuse, NY 
13244-5160 
315/423-2596 
a iar 
f 
ul 
| pein: x 
