Marine Phosphorescent Wheels (ctw 4) 
Description: Spoke-like bands of light rotating around a central 
hub. The spokes may be straight, curved, or S-shaped. Rotation is 
in either direction and may change during the display. In some 
cases, the outer part of the wheel seems to spin in a different sense 
from the central part. Illustrating the illusory character of the 
phenomenon, different observers sometimes see the same wheel 
rotating in opposite directions. Wheel sizes range from tens of feet 
to several miles, with spoke widths of 5-50 feet being common. 
Generally, the sources of light seem to be on or just beneath the 
surface, but several examples exist of wheels composed of 
luminous mist spinning well above the sea’s surface. Spoke colors 
are whitish and greenish in most cases. Several wheels may appear 
simultaneously, rotating in various senses with overlapping pat- 
terns. Phosphorescent wheel displays are frequently preceded and 
followed by displays of moving, parallel bands (GLW2). Like the 
moving band displays, the phosphorescent wheels are most com- 
mon in the Indian Ocean, especially the Persian Gulf, and the 
China Sea. The few wheel-like structures seen in other waters are 
usually poorly formed and stationary. The duration of a wheel- 
type display lasts from a few minutes to more than an hour. 
Data Evaluation: Scores of well-observed examples. Rating: 1. 
Anomaly Evaluation: As with most of the organized phosphores- 
cent displays, the major problem seems to be explaining the origin 
and long-term stability of rather complex geometrical patterns. If 
the light source is not bioluminescence, as generally supposed, the 
anomaly is even stronger. Rating: 2. 
Possible Explanations: Certainly bioluminescence is the most like- 
ly source of light, although observers frequently remark that the 
ship’s wake is not luminous during wheel-type displays. The aerial 
wheels of luminous mist, if not illusory, would require air-borne 
organisms in cases where no wheel is visible in the water proper. 
Earthquake tremors may stimulate bioluminescence, with the in- 
terference patterns created by multiple sources accounting for the 
complex display geometries. The persistence of intricate 
geometries over many minutes seems to militate against this 
theory. Again, as in GLW3, the strong similarity of some marine 
phosphorescent displays to the so-called low-level auroras (GLA4) 
is striking. Some wheel observers have noted this, and electro- 
magnetic forces should not be dismissed offhand. 
Similar and Related Phenomena: The other marine phosphores- 
cent displays (GLW), low-level auroras (GLA4). 
The Catalog lists over 60 cases of phosphorescent wheels. Here are 
a few examples: 
X24. April 24, 1953. Gulf of Thailand. 
“Faint flashes of light with oscillating 
movements were observed on the sea. 
The flashes gradually increased in 
strength until at 0230 they suddenly 
changed into rather intensive rays of 
light moving around centres lying near 
the horizon. Three groups of rays were 
present, as shown in the sketch. (a) One 
on the port bow having a bearing of 
about 300° with the rays rotating an- 
ticlockwise. (b) One on the port bow 
having a bearing of about 230°, rotating 
clockwise. (c) One on the starboard bow 
having a bearing of about 95°, rotating 
anticlockwise. The beams were curved 
with the concave side in the direction of 
the movement, and were passing the 
ship continuously with a frequency of 
about three a second; they looked more 
like glowing shafts than beams of light. 
Reflections on the ship were clearly visi- 
ble. .. 
. The phenomenon lasted till 
0250, and it had been clear by the in- 
creasing strength of the group ahead 
and decreasing strength of the group 
astern, that the ship was advancing 
through the area of phosphorescence. 
Soon only the oscillating flashes could 
be seen and they also disappeared short- 
ly afterwards. At 0300 the situation was 
normal again.” 
—Henney, A., et al; “Phosphorescent 
Wheels, ’ Marine Observer, 24:73, 1954. 
X53. March 27, 1976. Gulf of Siam. “At 
1917 GMT pulsating bands of parallel 
light were observed in the sea moving 
towards the vessel from 045°T. After 2 
to 3 minutes the bands took on a defi- 
nite spoke formation, the centre of 
which was not seen but lay in the direc- 
tion of 315°T. The spokes passed the 
vessel at an ever-increasing rate, two 
spokes per second at the fastest. At this 
time they were about 22 metres in width 
and there was 22 metres between each 
spoke. The light given off from the 
spokes was white to light green in col- 
our, it increased in intensity with the 
speed of rotation. The direction of rota- 
tion was clockwise. By 1925 the centre 
of the spokes had shifted from 315° to 
360°T and gradually reverted back to 
advancing bands of parallel light. Short- 
ly after this the parallel bands gave way 
to a counter-clockwise spoke rotation. 
This was observed in a direction centred 
along 315°T from the vessel, the spokes 
moved across the bow to 045°T, at 
which point they became parallel bands 
which diminished in intensity. By 1934 
they had completely disappeared.” 
—Rowntree, C, et al.; “Bioluminescence, ” 
Marine Observer, 47:17, 1977. 
X57. March 6, 1980. Arabian Sea. “At 
1552 GMT bioluminescence in the form 
of diffused white light in ‘whirlpool’ 
and ‘cartwheel’ formations was ob- 
served; within 3 minutes it completely 
encircled the vessel and extended to the 
horizon. The ‘cartwheel’ formations 
were brightest at the centre with a halo 
effect surrounding the outer edges. As 
the vessel passed over 2 such formations 
the ‘spokes’ were estimated to be 2 to 
2% metres in width and the entire con- 
centration, which was more than the 
width of the vessel (approximately 27 
metres), was observed on both sides of 
the bridge-wing simultaneously. The 
‘whirlpool’ formations, with a distinct 
central hub, varied from 1% to 2 metres 
in width and from 1 to 15 metres in 
length. The phenomenon was observed 
for 40 minutes.” 
—Messinger, RA.; “Bioluminescence, ” 
Marine Observer, 51:13, 1981. 
X60. General observation. Light wheels 
are mostly confined to the continental 
shelves of Asia and Middle East. They 
may be caused by earth tremors. 
—‘Do Earthquakes Cause Glowing 
‘Wheels’ on the Sea?” New Scientist, 
10:528, 1961. 
Three phosphorescent wheels turn- 
ing simultaneously in the Gulf of 
Thailand. 
yy Oy “ty 
\ 
ii" 
\v 
\ 
\ \\ ee 
\ 
\\ 
\) 
Mitten Wer, 
3 
: wn null Hm, 
Pinay) unl 
t 
4 
“hy 
pooner) Cn 
T/T 
YE), & 
=~ 
quinone 
BE P11), 
te 
“I 
i 
“gS 
yr 
\ 
ys 
S 
% y, S SY 
we 
ww > 
\' 
See 
ES By 
ASF 
ZS BH CRO 
ws 
ZEN) 
\" 
PRES 
Y, 
anathngtgs < 
Se 
$ y 
