ARMCHAIR SHAMANISM 
| 
A YANKEE 
WAY 
OF 
KNOWL 
Dae 
by Chas Clifton 
Illustrated by Mark Fisher 
66 
. 
° 
Each of the twelve women turned and transformed into her ani- 
mal spirit counterpart. Standing before me were the luminous forms of 
many creatures: A polar bear, erect on her hind legs, a deer, an ante- 
lope, a horse, an eagle, a wolf, a human-size badger, a red squirrel, a 
| 
coyote, a mink, and a huge lynx tracking my eyes with hers. 
| 
“In the center of these glowing forms was the largest creature of 
| 
all, less luminous, but there was more light around her if possible. She 
was a Jaguar form of human proportions, and her face looked half jag- 
uar and half monkey. Her eyes were large and round, her huge brows 
|
arched, and her nostrils flared. The ears were enlarged and jutting out 
|
| 
like a monkey’s. A coiled serpent held a tuft of Quetzalcoatl plumes 
|
atop her head. I thought she might be the jaguar-monkey goddess.” 
“This is a true story. Some of the names and places in this book 
have been changed to protect the privacy of those involved.” 
he shamanic model of spiritual experience had vir- 
tually vanished from the Western religious world 
by the beginning of this century. But once again 
“shamans” have returned to guide late-twentieth 
century spiritual seekers—and to trick them. Unlike those 
of times past, today’s shamans offer a peculiarly vicarious 
experience in the form of books and weekend workshops. 
This new trend began for many thousands of people 
when they picked up their first book by Carlos Castaneda 
—Lynn Andrews, Star Woman 
in the early 1970s. Castaneda was a graduate student of 
anthropology at the University of California, Los Angeles, 
in the 1960s. He started out studying hallucinogenic 
plants, but Castaneda claims that due to an encounter with 
Yaqui Indian sorcerer “don Juan,” he became heir to a 
magical tradition that stretches back five hundred years to 
pre-conquest Mexico. In the process of writing his doc- 
toral dissertation, Castaneda created—or revived—a liter- 
ary genre, the “magical autobiography,” which is the only 
While writing this piece, Chas Clifton simultaneously put the finishing touches on his Master's dissertation in Religious Studies 
at the University of Colorado, where he specialized in new religious movements and native American religions. Clifton first explored 
the subject of shamanic fiction in Iron Mountain, a journal of magical religious traditions of which he is a former editor, and further 
developed the theme in an article in Gnosis #2 (see p. 30). Aside from his interest in religion, Clifton leads a double life as an out- 
door expert, working as the outdoor editor of the Cation City (Colorado) Daily Record, and contributing to magazines like Western 
Outdoors, Outdoor Journal, and High Country News. 
—T'S. 
43 
