Horrified witnesses saw Mrs. Olga Worth Stephens suddenly ignite into a 
“human torch” while sitting in her parked automobile. The car was not 
damaged by the flames. 
—WMysterles of the Unexplained 
canals of Mars. Gould’s books have been in and out of 
print over the years, though at the time of this writing 
they’re unfortunately “out.” They'll be back. 
A number of recent books have commendably surveyed 
the inexplicable. One of the best is Phenomena: A Book 
of Wonders by John Michell and Robert J.M. Rickard (one of 
the editors of Fortean Times). At the outset the authors 
expound upon “neo-phenomenalism, the science of the fu- 
ture. With nothing to prove, no faiths, theories or taboos 
to inhibit, we shall look at the universe directly by consider- 
ing all the evidence of itself it chooses to offer.” Then, 
without further philosophizing, they proceed into the un- 
known. Two delightfully illustrated pages each are given to 
over fifty miraculous subjects, including electric people, 
lightning pictures, images that weep and bleed, stones 
that move and grow, and children brought up by animals. 
Reader’s Digest’s contribution to Fortean literature, 
Mysteries of the Unexplained, is a large, wonderfully illus- 
trated compilation of inexplicable events extracted from 
sources ranging from the reliable to the dubious. 
Not to be 
outdone, Time-Life has recently released the first three vol- 
umes of a projected twenty-volume set, Mysteries of the 
Unknown, that is the most lavishly produced testament to 
strange phenomena yet. Illustrated with original paintings 
and obscure photographs, and with a text that consoli- 
dates a wealth of obscure historical research, this is an en- 
cyclopedia of the popular (if questionable) folklore of the 
twentieth century: the Bermuda triangle, UFO kidnappings, 
the hollow earth, ley lines, bizarre psychic powers. 
In a 1970s attempt at “statistical Forteanism,” two sci- 
entists, Michael Persinger and Gyslaine Lafreniere of Lau- 
rentian University in Sudbury, Ontario, fed a computer 
6,060 weird events extracted from the books of Charles 
Fort, Fate magazine, newspaper clippings, and scientific 
— 
journals, apparently without regard for reliability. Their 
goal: to see if the events occurred in "clusters" corre- 
sponding to large-scale physical phenomena. The grand 
solar-geophysical-electromagnetic theory for Fortean events 
that they propose is appropriately controversial. Their 
book, Space-Time Transients and Unusual Events, is full 
of beautiful diagrams and is a preeminent example of ec- 
centric scholarship. 
You say you just want an inexpensive, reliable introduc- 
tion to Fortean mysteries? Daniel Cohen’s mildly skeptical 
attitude combined with a genuine love for the material 
makes his Encyclopedia of the Strange the perfect 
beginner’s guide. Ancient mysteries, unknown places, 
strange people, weird talents, natural mysteries, magic— 
it’s not an exhaustive collection, but it provides enough 
background history to make you conversant at the next 
Fortean convention cocktail party. 
e 
An unclothed man shocks a crowd—a moment later, if no- 
body is generous with an overcoat, somebody is collecting hand- 
kerchiefs to knot around him. 
A naked fact startles a meeting of a scientific society—and 
whatever it has for loins is soon diapered with conventional expla- 
nations. 
—The Complete Books of Charles Fort 
e 
Clearwater, Minn.: Mound opened. Remains of seven per- 
sons, “seven to eight feet tall.” Buried heads downward. “Skulls 
had receding foreheads and teeth were double all the way 
around, not like those of present race of men.” 
(St. Paul Pioneer 
Press—June 29, 1888) 
—Doubt 
e 
Residents of Whiteface, near Dornach in Sutherland, had 
some trouble with the water supply after heavy rain fell in Febru- 
ary. One man turned on the cold tap and saw a two-inch fish flop 
into his kitchen sink; another, running the bath, found himself 
sharing a hot tub with the skeleton of a frog. The problem was 
blamed on storms causing extensive flooding of the water pipes. 
D. Mail 10 Feb 1987. 
—Fortean Times 
e 
Awoman who raised a cobra in the belief it was her dead son 
reincarnated, died when the snake bit her in Trincomalee, eastern 
Sri Lanka. S. Express 1 July 1984. 
—Fortean Times 
The Complete Books Doubt 
Fortean Times 
INFO Journal 
Pursuit 
of Charles Fort 
Tiffany Thayer, Editor 
Robert J.M. Rickard and 
Raymond D. Manners, 
Robert C. Warth, Editor 
Charles Fort 
Volumes 1-5 
Paul Sieveking, Editors 
Editor 
$12/year 
1941, 1975; 1125 pp. 
$16.95 each postpaid 
$16/4 issues 
$12/year 
(4 issues) from: 
$23.95 
Volume 6 
from: 
(4 issues) from: 
SITU 
($25.20 postpaid) from: 
$18.95 postpaid 
Fortean Times 
International Fortean 
P.O. Box 265 
Dover Publications 
All from: 
96 Mansfield Road 
Organization 
Little Silver, NJ 
Attn: CRX 
Sourcebook Project 
London, NW3 2HX 
P.O. Box 367 
07739-0265 
31 East Second St. 
P.O. Box 107 
United Kingdom 
Mineola, NY 11501 
Glen Arm, MD 21057 
sant 
Cimes 
Arlington, VA 22210-0367 
i 
$$ 
rrr 
