| 
hroniclers 
TRANGE-BUT-TRUE BOOKS ARE A DIME A DOZEN 
and, ever since the publication of Frank Edwards's 
classic Stranger Than Science (1959), they've been a 
bastion of purple journalism. 
But for those readers 
persistent enough to wade through the newsstand sludge, 
the unpolluted headwaters beyond hold a core of delightful 
material. One must be careful, however: not everything’s a 
mystery that claims to be. It’s probably safest to assume 
that even in the best compilations of strange phenomena, 
only a small percentage are genuinely inexplicable. 
It all started with Charles Fort. 
Fort, called by one biog- 
rapher the “Prophet of the Unexplained,” spent his life in li- 
braries, enjoying his favorite pastime: systematically comb- 
ing newspapers, magazines, and journals, and noting down 
reports of mysterious occurrences like falls of fish and 
frogs, red snows, blue rains, strange aerial objects, and 
disappearing planets. He wove his voluminous notes into 
four books: The Book of the Damned (1919), New Lands 
(1923), Lo! (1931), and Wild Talents (1932), but these 
texts are more than just grocery lists of anomalous data. 
Fort poked fun at the scientific establisnment and sug- 
gested outlandish, tongue-in-cheek theories to explain his 
“damned facts.” 
Rejecting the mechanistic world view of 
the science of his time, he proposed instead a playful, 
prankster universe incomprehensible by logic. 
“If our exis- 
tence is an organism, it must be one of the most notorious 
old rascals in the cosmos,” he wrote. Elsewhere he 
jested, “| am not now saying that God is an Idiot. Maybe 
he, or it, drools comets and gibbers earthquakes, but the 
scale would have to be considered at least super-idiocy.” 
Fort’s four books have been collected into one volume, The 
Complete Books of Charles Fort. 
So prodigious was Fort’s research task, and so curious 
his philosophy, it was probably inevitable that a Fortean 
“movement” would arise. American novelists Tiffany 
Thayer and Theodore Dreiser founded the original Fortean 
Society in 1931, though Fort refused to join. In 1937 they 
began to publish Doubt: The Fortean Society Magazine, 
which lasted until Thayer’s death in 1959. 
Editor Thayer 
caustically mocked government, religion, and science at 
every opportunity, regularly referring to scientists as “dirty 
yellow bellies.” 
For years, copies of Doubt were unobtain- 
able; now, they’ve been reissued in a six-volume set. 
These days the Fortean tradition is carried on in a num- 
ber of small publications. The undisputed best is Fortean 
Times, which exudes a delightful sense of humor and a 
healthy excitement for all things strange and wonderful. 
Highlighted by entertaining editorial commentary, FT fea- 
tures mind-boggling surveys of weird events culled from the 
newspapers of the world, including sea serpents, strange 
fires, religious miracles, out-of-place animals, ice meteors, 
etc. 
In addition, FT offers eccentric columnists, odd comic 
strips, and elegant shoestring design. Great fun to read, 
and a continuing testament to the strangeness of our 
world. 
Both INFO Journal (published by the Intemational 
Fortean Organization, founded in 1965) and Pursuit (pub- 
lished by the Society for the Investigation of the Unex- 
plained, founded in 1966) feature anomaly news items and 
original articles, including useful Surveys of peculiar recur- 
ring phenomena. An ambitious newcomer to the field, 
Strange Magazine, made a promising debut in 1987. 
It’s 
broken new ground with well-researched articles about 
Fortean elements in popular culture, including historical 
treatments of mad scientists in the movies and “death 
rays.” Quite a few prominent Forteans are regular colum- 
nists and contributors. 
The only longstanding Fortean-style newsstand maga- 
zine is the venerable Fate, which has been around since 
1948. Although regular reader-contributed columns like 
“My Proof of Survival” and “True Mystic Experiences” tend 
to strain the limits of credibility, Fate has over the years 
managed to publish a lot of genuinely provocative material, 
some of which, in retrospect, proves to have been ahead 
of its time. (For example, in the ’5Os it may have been the 
first national magazine to publish articles about psyche- 
delic drugs.) Today, between the ghost and miracle stories, 
Fate mixes in reliable articles on parapsychology, dream 
research, folklore, archaeology, and even debunkings and 
hoax exposés. And for my money, it’s got the most enter- 
taining classified ads of any magazine anywhere. 
A contemporary of Charles Fort and a popular radio 
broadcaster, the Briton Rupert T. Gould had three special- 
ties: marine chronometers, typewriters, and unexplained 
mysteries. He produced histories of the first two subjects, 
and two major texts on the last. (He also authored a book 
on sea serpents and one on the Loch Ness monster.) 
Gould brought a high level of scholarship to the subject, ex- 
amining particular topics in depth. Oddities (1928) con- 
tains fascinating chapters on “the devil’s hoof marks” that 
appeared in fifty linear miles of Devonshire snow one win- 
ter morning in 1855, the coffins in Barbados that repeat- 
edly rearranged themselves within a sealed crypt, and is- 
lands of the Atlantic that have been sighted, charted—and 
lost. Enigmas (1929) proved a worthy sequel, dealing in 
depth with legends of giants, mysterious sounds, and the 
81 
