the most sensitive instruments so, scientifically speaking, it 
would be impossible for brain waves (thoughts) to “ener- 
gize”’ a crystal. 
Crystal power proponents, of course, dismiss this brain 
wave argument by stating that the crystal energies they use 
can’t be measured because they are “bioplasmic” or “‘or- 
gone” energies, the same energies used in pyramid power, 
Orgone Energy Accumulators, and Kirlian photography. 
“And,” believers say, “what type of energy we use isn’t 
important: what counts are the positive effects, the many 
people healed, and the thousands of people who feel better 
about themselves.” 
. 
In a sense, they’re right; what difference does it make 
how results are achieved, so long as people are freed of pain 
and disease, so long as they live better, more productive 
lives? Medical doctors do much the same thing when they 
give patients and test subjects placebos (fake drugs), know- 
ing that thirty to fifty percent will show improvement and/or 
feel less pain (the well-known “placebo effect’’). 
The difference between crystal power and the placebo 
effect is, of course, that medical doctors ascribe the very real 
benefits to the mind of the patient and not to the placebo 
itself. Many crystal power proponents, on the other hand, 
seem to attribute an ever-increasing reality to the crystal 
lore. For them, the legends of Atlantis and Mu (Lemuria) are 
not legends, but real historical places where 25-foot-long 
crystals provided unlimited energy, guiding the future of all 
mankind, and guided visualizations are actual excursions in 
which participants bodily enter their favorite crystals to 
write down their desires on a magic blackboard (for ex- 
ample, “anew Porsche” or “to win the lottery’’). Most crystal 
power practices are undeniably harmless or even helpful, 
such as using crystals as focal points for meditation and 
relaxation (much as Zen students use a candle flame), or as 
placebos in minor healing sessions. 
A few have proven 
dangerous, suchas the case of the crystal-wielding “mummy 
cult” that convinced two diabetic brothers in Chicago to give 
up their insulin, resulting in their deaths.° 
Perhaps it is the coolness and clarity of crystals that has 
made them such perfect projection screens for our own 
externalized 
imaginings since time immemorial. 
And 
perhaps today, in the age of polystyrene and formica, it is 
especially soothing to meditate upon an object of such 
undeniable natural beauty. Whatever the reason, the current 
crystal fever—which shows no sign of abating— is only the 
latest and perhaps most widespread manifestation of our 
continuing fascination for these mysterious shards of “‘fro- 
zen light.” 
' Cornelius Hurlbut. 
1968. Minerals and Man. New York: 
Random House, p. 228. 
2 Mircea Eliade. 
1964. Shamanism: Archaic Techniques of 
Ecstasy. Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, p.4. 
3 Pomo Shaman (a film). 1964. Berkeley, California: Univer- 
sity of California Extension Media Center. 
4 Mellie Uyldert. 1981. The Magic of Precious Stones. 
Wellingborough, England: Turnstone Press, p. 53. 
5 Randall & Vicki Baer. 1984. Window of Light. San Francis- 
co: Harper & Row, p. xiv. 
6 “Mummy-Health Cult." February 14, 1988. Associated Press. 
The Curious Lore of Precious Stones 
George Frederick Kunz, who as a consultant to Tiffany's 
assembled many of the greatest museum collections of pre- 
cious stones, was probably the all-time world expert on the tra- 
ditions and folklore surrounding gems. 
His book, first pub- 
lished in 1913, provides an excellent overview of the subject 
free of the distortions that have been added by the current 
crop of New Age “crystal power” books. 
Lore from every cul- 
ture is covered, from ancient times to modern. 
The subtitle 
says it all: “being a description of their sentiments and folk 
lore, superstitions, symbolism, mysticism, use in medicine, 
protection, prevention, religion, and divination. 
Crystal gazing, 
birthstones, lucky stones and talismans, astral, zodiacal, and 
planetary.” 
—T.S. 
e 
The visions seen in crystal gazing were often supposed to 
be the work of evil spirits, seeking to seduce the souls of men 
by offering the promise of riches or by according them an un- 
lawful glimpse into the future. 
Here, as in other magical op- 
erations, there was both white and black magic, recourse 
being had in some cases to good, and in others to evil spirits. 
As an illustration of the latter practice, a sixteenth century 
writer relates that in the city of Nuremberg, some time during 
the year 1530, a “demon” showed to a priest, in a crystal, the 
vision of a buried treasure. 
Believing in the truth of this vi- 
sion, the priest went to the spot indicated, where he found an 
excavation in the form of a cavern, in the depths of which he 
could see a chest and a black dog lying alongside it. Eagerly 
the priest entered the cavern, hoping to possess himself of 
the treasure, but the top of the excavation caved in and he 
was crushed to death. 
e 
Rock-crystal is included among the various objects used 
as fetiches by the Cherokee Indians. 
This stone is believed to 
have great power to give aid in hunting and also in divining. 
One owner of such a crystal kept his magic stone wrapped up 
in buckskin and hid it in a sacred cave; at stated intervals he 
would take it out of its repository and “feed” it by rubbing over 
it the blood of a deer. This goes to prove that the stone, as a 
fetich, was considered to be a living entity and as such to re- 
quire nourishment. 
Crystal ball, supported by 
bronze dragon. Japanese. 
| 
The Curious Lore 
of Precious 
Stones 
George F. Kunz 
1913, 1971; 420 pp. 
$7.95 
($9.20 postpaid) 
from: 
Dover Publications 
31 East Second St. 
Mineola, NY 11501 
