An Encyclopedia of 
by William R. Corliss 
After more than thirteen years of scouring the scientific and 
semiscientific literature for anomalies, my major conclusion is 
that this is an amazingly fruitful activity. In fact, organized sci- 
ence should have been doing the same searching and compiling 
for the past 200 years. It is simply astounding that a Catalog of 
Scientific Anomalies does not already exist to guide scientific 
thinking and research. It is at least as important to realize what is 
not known as it is to recognize the well-explained. My Catalog 
is largely the product of one person’s library research, carried 
forward without grants, contracts, or donations. 
Under the aegis of the Sourcebook Project, I have already published 
20 volumes, totalling well over 7,000 pages of source material on 
scientific anomalies. As of this moment, these 20 volumes repre- 
sent only about 25 percent of my database. New material is being 
added at the rate of about 1,200 new articles and items per year, 
about 300 of which are from the current literature. These rates 
could be easily multiplied several times over by spending more 
time in libraries. Even after thirteen years, only the scientific jour- 
nals of the United States and England have received my serious 
attention. There remain the English-language journals of the rest 
of the world, those journals in other languages, university theses, 
government reports, the publications of scientific research 
facilities, conference papers, untold thousands of books, and an 
immense reservoir of newspapers. The cataloging task has just 
begun. The anomalies residing in the world’s literature seem 
nearly infinite in number. 
Given this rough assessment of the magnitude of the anomaly 
literature, one can understand why the Catalog of Anomalies will 
require at least 25 volumes, with master indexes, as only the initial 
step in providing scientists with ready access to what is not, in my 
opinion, well-explained. 
Will the Catalog of Anomalies revolutionize science? Probably not 
— at least not immediately. Quite often the initial reaction to the 
books of anomalies already published has been disbelief. The data 
must be in error; the data are mainly testimonial; the data are too 
old; the supposed anomaly was explained long ago. Germs of 
truth reside in all these complaints. But for every anomaly or 
example that can be legitimately demolished, ten more take its 
place. Nature is very anomalous or, equivalently, nature is not 
yet well understood by science. Much remains to be done. 
—William R. Corliss 
Anomalies 
THE SOURCEBOOK PROJECT 
How Data and Anomalies 
Are Evaluated in the Catalog 
Each anomaly type is rated 
twice on four-level scales for 
data “validity” and “anomal- 
ousness,” as defined below. 
These evaluations represent 
only the opinion of the com- 
piler and are really only 
rough guides. 
Data Evaluation Scale 
1. 
Many high-quality observa- 
tions. Almost certainly a 
real phenomenon. 
2. 
Several good observations or 
one or two high-quality obser- 
vations. Probably real. 
3. 
Only a few observations, some 
of doubtful quality. Phenomenon 
reality questionable. 
4. 
Unacceptable, poor-quality data. 
Such phenomena are included 
only for the purposes of com: 
parison and amplification. 
Anomaly Evaluation Scale 
1. 
Anomaly cannot be explained 
by modifications of present 
laws. Revolutionary. 
2. 
Can probably be explained 
through relatively minor 
modifications of 
present laws. 
3. 
Can probably be explained 
using current theories. Primarily 
of curiosity value. 
4. 
Well-explained. Included only 
for purposes of comparison 
and amplification. 
Anomalies that rate “1” on both 
scales are very rare. Such anomalies, 
however, are the most important 
because of their potential for forcing 
scientific revolutions. As additional 
Catalog volumes are published, the 
relative proportion of “double-1s” will 
increase, especially in the fields of 
biology and psychology. 
William Corliss’ Sourcebooks are the “Encyclopedia Britannica of the unexplained.” Over fifteen years ago Cor- 
liss, a physicist and science writer, began to search methodically through the scientific literature, extracting and 
categorizing reports of anomalistic phenomena. Presented here is a small sampling from his Anomaly Catalog se- 
ries, which doesn’t begin to convey their comprehensive flavor. Corliss has devised the first cross-referenced “tax- 
onomy of anomalies,” reflected here by letter-and-number codes like “GLW4” and “X54.” You'll find these indis- 
pensable when you dive into the Catalogs proper, which can be ordered from The Sourcebook Project, P.O. Box 
107, Glen Arm, MD 21057. Ask for a free copy of Corliss’ newsletter, Science Frontiers. 
—TS. 
109 
