Mary 
Irvin 
Wright 
tinue five days. Dance four successive nights, and the last 
night keep up the dance until the morning of the fifth day 
when all must bathe in the river and then disperse to their 
homes.” The Ghost Dance itself was the heart of the 
movement. Men, women, and children chanted and 
danced a shuffling step to the steady beat of drums. Hand 
in hand they moved for five consecutive days, breaking 
only for food and sleep. During this dance-time some 
members of the tribe fell into trances or dropped from ex- 
haustion. Many had visions connected to the messianic 
prophecy, and each tribe used these revelations to embel- 
lish Wovoka’s basic teachings. 
Wovoka had asked that the Ghost Dance be performed 
once every six weeks, and so it was done, in combination 
with sweat lodge ceremonies and fasting. Despite the 
pacifist message, there was a definite anti-white tenor to 
the movement. “Do not refuse to work for the whites and 
do not make any trouble with them until you leave them. 
When the earth shakes do not be afraid. It will not hurt 
you.” In most tribes all vestiges of the white man were 
removed from clothing during the Ghost Dance. All met- 
al, for instance, was removed, even the fine German silver 
ornaments so prized by some Native Americans of the 
time. The Sioux, the only tribe where the Ghost Dance 
happened to coincide with a violent uprising, even went 
so far as to develop special garb for the Ghost Dance: a 
shapeless fringed cotton shirt and pants, which Mooney 
believes were modeled after Mormon religious garb. 
The Sioux Ghost Dance shirts were soon after thought 
to have magical powers to repel bullets—a belief that was 
dispelled in the tragic uprising of Wounded Knee. The 
outrage of Wounded Knee shattered illusions for many of 
the tribes, and by 1893, a few short years after the zenith 
of the movement, it was almost totally extinct. “The 
Shoshoni,” writes Mooney, “lost faith in it after the failure 
of the first predictions.” The Paiutes and many tribes 
from the Oklahoma area incorporated the Dance into their 
tribal life and continued to believe in the coming of the 
An illustration 
from James 
Mooney's first- 
hand mono- 
graph, "The 
Ghost-Dance 
Religion and the 
Sioux Outbreak 
of 1890." For 
days on end, 
men, women, 
and children 
danced a shuf- 
fling step to the 
steady beat of 
drums, prepar- 
ing for the end 
of the world. 
Great Disaster. But the original frenzy, the cultural delir- 
ium fueled by the expectation of imminent salvation, de- 
volved into a more diffused, almost Christian hope in “a 
reunion with departed friends in a happier world at some 
time in the unknown future.” Wovoka himself appeared 
as an exhibition at the Midwinter Fair in San Francisco, 
and then disappeared, like his movement, into obscurity. 
He died in 1932.7 
SAUCER SAVIORS FROM OUTER SPACE 
Between the Ghost Dance of the 1890s and the Eisen- 
hower era of the 1950s lies a historical chasm. Where 
once there were the chants and the beats of the drum, now 
there was the Jet Age, and kitchens in chrome and for- 
mica. America seemed firmly established on an assembly 
line of progress. The fifties was also the decade that dis- 
covered the term “anomie,” and even among apparently 
comfortable suburbanites End of the World movements 
sprang up like mushrooms on a well-manicured lawn. 
On August 27, 1952, a middle-class medical doctor 
sent fifty copies of a seven-page mimeographed letter to 
newspapers around the country. It outlined important in- 
formation concerning the fate of the world: “The great 
tilting of the land of the U.S. to the East will throw up 
mountains along the Central States. ... a great wave 
rushes into the Rocky Mountains. The slopes of the side 
to the east will be the beginning of a new civilization 
upon which will be the new order, in the light.” These 
prophecies had been received through an entity called 
Sananda who communicated with the human race via the 
automatic writing of a fairly ordinary housewife in her fif- 
ties. “All things must first be likened unto the house- 
cleaning in which the chaos reigns first, second the OR- 
DER,” were the words of Sananda via the housewife. “It 
2 The Ghost Dance religion has recently been revived by Wal- 
lace Black Elk, a Sioux Indian shaman who believes that the de- 
tails of the prophecy describe the events leading up to global nu- 
clear war, which will occur within the next five years. 
15 
