meant that I could not test my hypothesis about ESP/ 
memory/perception because no evidence at all of psi 
showed up in my test. 
. 
(2) I predicted that the best types of target material for 
ESP should be those most easily remembered—for ex- 
ample, using words of varying frequency and ready imag- 
ing. But again I couldn’t test this hypothesis because all 
my targets were equally bad at eliciting psi! 
(3) I predicted correlations between ESP and memory. 
But one cannot meaningfully look for-correlations when 
one of the measures is of zero reliability. And that was 
the case for my measure of ESP. 
During my two years of research looking for ESP, I 
chalked up quite an impressive record of failures. All my 
hopes for my memory theory were disappointed. Instead 
of making progress in understanding psi, I was thrown up 
against that perpetual problem: Does it exist? This was 
the last issue I wanted to confront but it was forced on me 
by my failures. 
F COURSE IT IS POSSIBLE THERE 
just isn’t any such thing as ESP. 
My own failure to find it, however, 
couldn’t justify such a conclusion. 
What about the hundreds of other 
persons who claimed to have found it? I couldn't dismiss 
them all. 
There is also the sticky problem of ESP’s being al- 
ways defined negatively, as in “communication without 
using the recognized senses.” In other words, you can say 
only what ESP is not, not what it is. That makes it diffi- 
cult to say that it does not exist! And you can say that 
you have got ESP only when you have ruled out all other 
“normal” possibilities. Well, if you don’t find evidence 
of ESP, what can you say? Only that you have failed to 
find something which, according to science, shouldn’t 
have been there in the first place! 
More pressing even than this issue is the fact that no 
one is surprised when you don’t find it. The disbelievers 
or skeptics just say “told you so,” which is exactly what 
many people happily said to me. And the believers al- 
ways have some excuse—the conditions of an experiment 
weren’t right, the subjects weren’t good enough, or the 
experimenter’s beliefs were wrong. 
So what do you do if you actually want to know 
whether ESP exists or not? My approach was to continue 
systematically exploring all those “excuses” that might 
explain where I had “gone wrong.” 
Possibly I was using the wrong subjects. I had used 
only my own students; perhaps they weren’t psychic 
enough. 
At the same university where I was working, Ernesto 
Spinelli had been getting outstanding ESP results while 
testing children between three and eight years old. I tried 
to emulate his experiments with preschool children in a 
play group. We did simple ESP experiments in which the 
targets were colored candies and the children had to guess 
which color matched the hidden ones. Later I used picto- 
rial targets. The children were delightful to work with 
and they were convinced they could “guess” the pictures 
their friends were looking at. But all our results were 
close to chance. 
I decided I should test people who actually claimed 
psychic powers. This proved somewhat difficult. At 
pubs, lectures, or parties I often met individuals who 
claimed to possess various psychic abilities. But when I 
invited them to the lab for testing, most of them found 
reasons why they couldn’t come. A small number were 
willing and eager to come, however, and I proceeded to 
test them. 
I aimed always to find out what they liked to do best 
and then to design an experiment around their predilec- 
tions. There is no point in testing for something your sub- 
jects don’t claim to be able to do. 
To take a simple example: A mother and daughter 
from Scotland asserted they could pick up images from 
each other’s minds. They chose to use playing cards for 
the tests because that is what they used at home. I let 
them choose the room in which they would be tested and 
insured that there was no normal way for the “receiver” to 
see the cards. They failed. They could not get more right 
than chance predicted and they were terribly disappointed. 
They had honestly believed they could do it and I began 
to see how easy it is to be fooled by your own desire to 
believe. 
I had similar experiences with several dowsers, chil- 
dren who claimed they could move objects psychokineti- 
cally, and several who said they had telepathic powers. 
They all failed. Even now I have a five-digit number, a 
word, and a small object in my kitchen at home. The 
place and items were chosen by a young man who intends 
to “see” them while traveling out of his body. They have 
been there (though regularly changed) for three years. So 
far, though, he has had no success. 
Of course you can argue that none of these people 
were really “psychic,” but they certainly believed they 
were. Nor do I have access to any brilliant subjects. Ap- 
parently they are few and far between. 
An alternate approach, however, is to train people in 
relevant skills which may lead them to develop psychic 
abilities. My experience and knowledge of ritual magic, 
astral projection, and even meditation suggested that the 
triple skills of relaxation, concentration, and vivid visuali- 
zation are commonly associated with the awakening of 
psychic ability. I therefore put together a training group 
of 10 members and we taught ourselves for many months. 
We learned a great deal. We became proficient at pre- 
viously difficult imagery tasks; we improved our level of 
mental control, and we had many interesting experiences 
—including brief out-of-body experiences and sensations 
of flying or floating. But when we tested ourselves, our 
ESP scores stayed steadfastly close to chance. This was 
just one of the findings that gradually caused me to see 
what a mistake I had been making. I had been equating 
these interesting experiences, even mystical and peak ex- 
periences, with psi. In fact they may have nothing at all 
to do with psi. Gradually I began to find the experiences 
themselves more and more interesting—and psi less so. 
But I still hadn’t discovered why I had failed to find it 
in my experiments. One further possibility was that the 
71 
