seeing it as an opportunity to pay off her debts. As an artist 
and teacher, she had persuaded a number of her students to 
board various airplanes. None of them made any money, nor 
did any particularly need to experience the so-called proc- 
ess. When I interviewed her, Kachina had been out of the 
game for weeks—but recriminations were still wreaking 
havoc on her business and relationships. 
“There’s this general philosophy among the winners,” 
she said, “that ‘the universe handed me this money.’ But no: 
I handed it to you.” She claimed to have spoken to women 
who had lost their money and asked friends who had piloted 
out for help, only to be turned down flat. 
Kachina made the point that those people with the most 
influence—i.e., those with substantial and closely knit 
communities—were the ones who had risen to the tops of 
their pyramids the most rapidly. Although some of them had 
experienced short-term gain, they had risked that entire 
community to do so. Now that she was out, she realized how 
easily thinly-disguised greed had subverted the local New 
Age, meditation, and therapy movements. 
“Tenvy the people who just lost 
$1,500,” she said tersely. 
“We who have communities suffered from something much 
greater.” 
Kachina is an unusually resilient woman. After her 
airplane crashed, she doggedly pursued the goal that had 
42 
made the game seem attractive in the first place: freeing 
herself financially in order to open up an art gallery. This 
time, she did it without the infinity process pretense. She 
visited her contacts, spelled out her goals, and within a week 
had the capital she was after. 
“T found out that I could raise $6,000 for something I 
really believed in,” she said, “just by asking for it directly. 
“T think those big group workshops are a lot like reviv- 
alist meetings,” Kachina reflected. “Lots of forced good 
feeling and lots of contact. They’re good for people who 
don’t have a lot of engagement in their lives. What would be 
perfect,” she concluded dryly, “would be to run them as a 
singles group.” 
y the ides of March, nearly all the East Bay games 
seemed to be stalled at about the same level: with 
three to seven open spots (out of eight) at the student 
level. A meeting at Icarus’s house one rainy Thursday 
night drew only a handful of people. It was agreed that 
Sunday would tell. “By then,” a stately black woman named 
Sapphire reminded us, “Mercury will be out of retrograde.” 
Icarus regarded her with a wan smile. “You wouldn’t believe 
how many people are depending on that,” he said. 
The last meeting I attended, held in Richmond, was the 
most energetic and positive of all. An air of almost manic en- 
thusiasm pervaded the room. Groups from Marin and San 
Francisco were represented, as well as Berkeley and the East 
Bay. Faerie Dust read the ubiquitous guidelines, and intro- 
ductions were made. There were a few peppy testimonies, 
followed by some words of wisdom from our self-appointed 
guru, Blue Pearl. 
“In an infinite play,” he postulated, “the word need 
doesn’t exist. It’s a continuous play, where needs have no 
place.” Few seemed to understand what he was talking 
about, but those who did applauded loudly. 
By now, the buzzword “infinity” had all the appeal of a 
life sentence. I could see it everywhere: the need to get things 
going, to fly or die. The whole scene seemed more and more 
like a meeting of the Flat Earth Society, where everyone 
elects to spend an evening defending an amusing lie. 
As soon as we broke up into workshops, Icarus moved 
our little group outside into the cold night air. There he made 
an announcement: He had decided to quit the game, tally his 
losses, and hand his facilitatorship over to whomever was 
next in line. Although nobody actually yelled “Quitter!” a 
few pairs of eyes flashed with surprise and irritation. 
“T got into the game to make money,” Icarus stated. “I 
stayed in the game to learn how to lose money. I’m no longer 
going to learn anything new about this process, or how it 
works as a metaphor. What I want to find out now is this: If 
I can manage to get a lot of people to rally around the most 
ridiculous notion in the world, what might happen if I put that 
same effort and belief into my poetry?” 
It took the rest of the evening to work out the splits and 
new positions on paper. As a happy consequence of Icarus’s 
resignation, I moved up one level—from student to staff. 
The new Abundance Workshop I now belonged to had eight 
empty seats to fill. There were no likely prospects. 
The night sky was full of old, old stars. Millions of miles 
away, little Mercury winked against the roaring sun. 
