y 
System of Ignorance 
general popular superstition, kept them 
mysterious and awesome. 
This attitude began to change with the 
advent of modern science in the 17th cen- 
tury, although the age of reason diffused 
only slowly to the common people. The mot- 
to of the Royal Society of London, founded 
1660, was nullius in verba, which can be 
loosely translated as “take nothing on faith.” 
The new scientific philosophy insisted on 
proof through experiment and investigation, 
and many of the superstitions of earlier 
times fell before its onslaught. Signs, 
wonders, miracles, and portents now were 
all to be resolved into natural phenomena 
explainable by natural causes. Furthermore, 
these natural causes were to be organized 
within theories of increasing scope. 
Every system of knowledge, however, is 
also a system of ignorance. A great many 
phenomena did not fit into the newly con- 
structed comprehensive theories, and since 
these phenomena did not make sense in 
terms of what was known, they were simply 
excluded. Signs and wonders had been 
anomalies because they had departed from 
the common run of experience. The new 
meaning of anomaly was something outside 
the pale of science. As one would expect, 
the more inaccessible to observation 
something was, the more it tended to be 
considered an anomaly. When, in spite of 
the strictures of the scientific community, 
people insisted on reporting experiences of 
anomalous events, science developed a 
series of strategies for dealing with them. 
A Phenomenon 
Physically Impossible 
One such strategy was ridicule. In the 18th 
century, there were a great number of reports 
of stones falling from the sky. Few people 
connected such objects, often referred to as 
“thunderstones,” to the fiery meteors that 
occasionally lit up the heavens. From time to 
time, scientists investigated the thunderstone 
reports with varying results. For the most 
of Scie e 
al 
y 
part, if they felt there was anything to the re- 
ports, they kept silent. In 1755, for instance, 
the abbe Domenico Tata became the possessor 
of a meteorite specimen that five Calabrian 
shepherds had seen fall. He wrote: 
Since that time, the Prince of San Severo, 
and the Marquis Mauri, have often tried to 
persuade me to publish all the details, but 
other friends dissuaded me. They warned 
me that the savants and the half-savants 
(even more to be feared) would attack me 
on this subject or pretend to be gracious to 
me while treating me with incredulity. These 
reasons decided me in favor of silence. 
In 1772, a committee of the French Academy 
of Sciences was able to report that the two 
specimens of “thunderstones” they exam- 
ined had no special features indicating an 
extraordinary origin. The committee, which 
included the great chemist Antoine Lavoisier, 
further remarked that “true physicists” had 
always been skeptical of such reports and 
saw no reason to change its mind in the cur- 
rent instance. Other savants dealing with 
these reports suggested that falling stones 
might be the results of bad observers or bad 
observations. Museums threw away their 
precious meteorite specimens. 
The skepticism climaxed in 1790, when an 
area in the southwest of France was virtually 
inundated by falling stones. On the night of 
July 24, a huge fireball blazed over the south- 
ern skies and exploded over the parishes of 
Creon and Juillac. Stones rained down every- 
where, to the consternation of the peasants 
who fortunately escaped injury. But the 
stones knocked branches off trees and shat- 
tered roof tiles. Some of the stones (“black as 
a truffle”) weighed twenty pounds. 
In the nearby town of Agen, a local professor 
named St. Amand heard about the strange 
fall. He could not believe the fall had oc- 
curred, but he thought it would be amusing 
to ask the locals to certify that it had indeed 
taken place. He wrote to the village and was 
stunned to receive in return not only a legal 
protocol signed by the mayor and the village 
attorney but also a sample of the stones. The 
affidavit indicated that some 300 people 
103 
