report that the behavior was observed off 
Koshima, in at least five different colonies. 
Their reports specifically state that the behavior 
was observed only among a few individual 
monkeys and that it had not spread throughout 
a colony. There is no report of when these 
behaviors occurred. They must have been ob- 
served sometime between 1953 and 1967. But 
there is nothing to indicate that they followed 
closely upon some supposed miraculous event 
on Koshima during the autumn of 1958, or 
that they were in any other way remarkable. 
In fact there is absolutely no reason to believe 
in the 1958 miracle on Koshima. There is every 
reason to deny it. Watson’s description of the 
event is refuted in great detail by the very sources 
he cites to validate it. In contrast to Watson’s 
claims of a sudden and inexplicable event, 
“Such behavior patterns seem to be smoothly 
transmitted among individuals in the troop 
and handed down to the next generation,” 
according to Tsumori. 
Methodology of Pseudoscience 
The factual issue ends here. Watson’s claim of 
a “Hundredth Monkey Phenomenon” is con- 
clusively refuted by the very sources he cites in 
its support. He either failed to read or misre- 
ported the information in these scientific articles. 
But Watson’s own mode of reasoning and re- 
porting, as well as the responses he has inspired 
in the popular literature, deserve attention. 
They exemplify the pseudoscientific tradition. 
Consider the following: 
1. Hidden sources of information: Watson 
informs us that the scientific reports leave im- 
portant data “unspecified.” This is simply 
false. But, more subtly, he tells us that most of 
the researchers are still unsure of what happened 
and that those who “do suspect the truth are 
reluctant to publish it for fear of ridicule.” In 
one fell swoop Watson brands himself as cou- 
rageous, explains why no one else has dared 
report this miraculous phenomenon, and dis- 
178 
courages us from checking the cited literature 
for corroboration. Watson got the real story 
from “personal anecdotes and bits of folklore 
among primate researchers.” Those of us who 
don’t hobnob with such folks must trust Watson. 
The technique was effective. Of the commen- 
taries I have found on the Hundredth Monkey 
Phenomenon, not one shows evidence of having 
consulted the scientific sources cited by Watson. 
Nonetheless, each presents Watson’s fantasy as 
a scientifically authenticated fact. Nor is addi- 
tional information available from Watson. I 
have written both to Watson and to his pub- 
lishers requesting such information and have 
received no reply. 
2. Aversion to naturalistic explanations: The 
fact is that potato washing was observed on 
different islands. Watson infers that it had 
traveled in some paranormal way from one 
location to another. Like other aficionados of 
the paranormal, Watson ignores two plausible 
explanations of the concurrence of potato 
washing. First, it could well have been an in- 
dependent innovation — different monkeys in- 
venting the same solution to a common pro- 
blem. This process is anathema to the pseudo- 
scientist. The natives of the Americas simply 
could not have invented the pyramid indepen- 
dently of the Egyptians — they just didn’t 
have the smarts. In more extreme cases (Erich 
von Daniken, for example) a human being is 
just too dumb to invent certain clever things — 
extraterrestrials must have done it. 
Watson assumes that Imo was the only monkey 
capable of recognizing the usefulness of wash- 
ing potatoes. In his words, Imo was “a monkey 
genius” and potato washing is “comparable 
almost to the invention of the wheel.” 
Monkeys on other islands were too dumb for 
this sort of innovation. But keep in mind that 
these monkeys didn’t even have potatoes to 
wash before 1952 or 1953, when provisioning 
began. Monkeys in at least five locations had 
learned potato washing by 1962. This suggests 
