improvise details only when the cited literature 
fails to provide adequate information? The fol- 
lowing comments will be restricted to the liter- 
ature on macaques actually cited by Watson. 
Almost all of the information about the 
Koshima troop appears in a journal article by 
Masao Kawai in 1965; the other articles are 
secondary on this topic: Kawai’s article is 
remarkably detailed in its description of the 
Koshima events. The troop numbered 20 in 1952 
and grew to 59 by 1962. (At least in the numer- 
ical sense, there was never a “hundredth monkey”’ 
on Koshima.) Watson states that “an unspecified 
number” of monkeys on Koshima had acquired 
the potato-washing habit by 1958. Actually this 
number was far from unspecified. Kawai’s data 
allows the reader to determine the dates of ac- 
quisition of potato washing (and two other 
food behaviors), as well as the dates of birth 
and geneological relationships, of every monkey 
in the Koshima troop from 1949 to 1962. In 
March 1958, exactly 2 of 11 monkeys over 
seven years old had learned potato washing, 
while exactly 15 of 19 monkeys between two 
and seven had the habit. This amounts to 17 of 
30 noninfant monkeys. There is no mention in 
this paper (or in any other) of a sudden learn- 
ing event in the fall of 1958. However, it is 
noted that by 1962, 36 of the 49 monkeys had 
acquired the habit. So both the population and 
the number of potato washers had increased by 
19 during this four-year period. Perhaps this is 
what suggested to Watson that a sudden event 
occurred in the fall of 1958. And perhaps 
(since one can only surmise) this idea was rein- 
forced in Watson’s mind by the following state- 
ment by Kawai: “The acquisition of [potato 
washing] behavior can be divided into two 
periods; before and after 1958.” 
So Kawai does not give a time of year, a day of 
the week, or even the season for any sudden 
event in 1958. But he does at least identify the 
year. And is Kawai mystified about the differ- 
ence between pre- and post-1958 acquisition? 
Is he “not quite sure what happened?” Is he 
reluctant to publish details “for fear of ridi- 
cule?” No, he publishes the whole story, in 
gothic detail. The post-1958 learning period 
was remarkable only for its normalcy. The 
period from 1953 to 1958 had been a period of 
exciting innovation. The troop encountered 
new food sources, and the juveniles invented 
ways of dealing with these sources. But by 
1958, the innovative youth had become status 
quo adults; macaques mature faster than 
humans. The unusual juvenile-to-adult teaching 
methods reverted to the more traditional pro- 
cess of learning one’s food manners at one’s 
mother’s knee. Imo’s first child, 
a male named 
According to Watson, a sort 
of group consciousness had 
developed among the monkeys. 
“Ika,” was born in 1957. Imo and her former 
playmates brought up their children as good 
little potato-washers. One can only hope that 
Ika has been less trouble to his Mom than Imo 
was to hers. Kawai speaks of the innovative 
period from 1953 to 1958 as “individual propa- 
gation” and the period after 1958 as “precul- 
tural propagation.” (This latter term does not 
indicate anything unusual for the monkey 
troops. The troops under normal circumstances 
have behavioral idiosyncrasies and customs 
that are passed along within the group by 
“pre-cultural” means. The expression only indi- 
cates a reluctance to refer to monkey behavior 
as genuinely “cultural.”’) 
So there was nothing left unsaid in Kawai’s 
description. There was nothing mysterious, or 
even sudden, in the events of 1958. Nineteen 
fifty-eight and 1959 were the years of maturation 
of a group of innovative youngsters. The 
human hippies of the 1960s now know that 
feeling. In fact 1958 was a singularly poor year 
for habit acquisition on Koshima. Only two 
monkeys learned to wash potatoes during that 
year, young females named Zabon and Nogi. 
An average of three a year had learned potato 
washing during the previous five years. There 
is no evidence that Zabon and Nogi were psychic 
or in any other way unusual. 
Let us try to take Watson seriously for a moment 
longer. Since only two monkeys learned potato 
washing during 1958 (according to Watson’s 
own citation), one of them must have been the 
‘“Hundredth Monkey.” Watson leaves “unspeci- 
fied” which monkey it was, so I am “forced to 
improvise” and “say, for argument’s sake” that 
it was Zabon. This means that poor little Nogi 
carries the grim metaphysical burden of being 
the “almost everyone in the colony” who, ac- 
cording to Watson, suddenly and miraculously 
began to wash her potatoes on that autumn 
afternoon. 
Watson claims that the potato-washing habit 
“spontaneously” leaped natural barriers. Is 
there evidence of this? Well, 
Japanese prima- 
tologists Masao Kawai and Atsuo Tsumori 
177 
