oe 
me 
by Ron Amundson 
G 
Illustrated by Norman Dog 
LAIMS OF THE PARANORMAL are supported in many ways. Personal 
reports (“I was kidnapped by extraterrestrials”), appeals to puzzling everyday 
experiences (“Did you ever get a phone call from someone you had just 
dreamed about?’’), and references to “‘ancient wisdom” are a few. Citations of 
actual scientific results are usually limited to ESP experiments and a few attempts to 
mystify further the already bizarre discoveries of modern physics. But the New Age is 
upon us (we’re told) and New Age authors like Rupert Sheldrake (A New Science of 
Life) and Lyall Watson (Lifetide) support their new visions of reality with scientific 
documentation. Sheldrake has a bibliography of about 200 listings, and Watson lists ex- 
actly 600 sources. The sources cited are mostly respectable academic and scientific 
publications. The days of “[unnamed] scientists say” and ‘Fred Jones, while walking 
alone in the woods one day ... .” are gone. Or are they? 
I teach college courses in epistemology, in the 
an article in The Brain/Mind Bulletin, and a 
philosophy of science, and in pseudoscience 
film by Elda Hartley have each been created 
and the occult. Students in these courses natur-___ 
with the title “The Hundredth Monkey.” In 
ally bring to class examples of remarkable and 
addition, we find an article entitled “The 
paranormal claims. During the past few years, 
| ‘Hundredth Monkey’ and Humanity’s Quest 
one such claim has become especially popular: 
for Survival” in the Phoenix Journal of Trans- 
the “Hundredth Monkey Phenomenon.” This 
personal Anthropology, and an article called 
phenomenon was baptized by Lyall Watson, 
“The Quantum Monkey” in Science Digest. 
who documents the case with references to five 
Each relies on Watson as the sole source of in- 
highly respectable articles by Japanese prima- 
formation on the remarkable and supernatural 
tologists Kinji Imanishi, Masao Kawai, Syunzo _ behavior of primates. 
Kawamura, and Atsuo Tsumori. Watson’s dis- 
The monkeys referred to are indeed remarkable. 
cussion of this phenomenon covers less than 
They are 
Japanese macaques (Macaca fuscata), 
two pages. (Except where noted, all references 
which live in wild troops on several islands in 
to Watson are to pages 147 and 148 of Lifetide.) 
Japan. They have been under observation for 
But this brief report has inspired much atten- 
years. During 1952 and 1953 the primatologists 
tion. Following Watson, a book by Ken Keyes, 
began “provisioning” the troops — providing 
Ron Amundson is a professor of philosophy at the University of Hawaii at Hilo, where he specializes in the philoso- 
phy of science. He spent the 
1985-86 academic year on sabbatical at Stephen Jay Gould’ s laboratory in the Mu- 
seum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard, studying the historical influence of the theory of evolution on the devel- 
opment of experimental psychology. Intrigued by the extraordinary implications of the Hundredth Monkey story, he 
decided to investigate for himself. The result is this article, which originally appeared in the Summer 1985 issue of 
the Skeptical Inquirer (see review, page 198). 
tio) 
- 
