And finally, of course, there are plenty of 
outright fakes. 
A fake often gives rise to a movement that en- 
dures long after the fakery is exposed. Spiritualism, 
the religion of my family for two generations, 
began in 1848 when 12-year-old Margaret Fox of 
Wayne County, New York, became the world’s 
first medium. People sitting with her in a darkened 
room asked questions of the spirits, and unex- 
plained rapping noises would reply. More and more 
people came to witness this marvel, and soon 
Margaret and her sisters went on tour. Much later, 
in 1888, she confessed it was all a hoax; she did it 
by snapping her big toe joint against the floor. But 
by now Spiritualism had grown far beyond the “spirit 
rapping’’ stage, and seances were full of flying 
spirit trumpets, spirit voices, gauzy figures appear- 
ing in the dark, and mediums foaming ectoplasm 
from all their body orifices. Spiritualists continued 
to revere Margaret Fox as the founder of their 
religion, even after her confession. Once, my 
grandfather took my parents to visit the Fox 
sisters’ cabin, preserved as a sort of Spiritualist 
shrine. My mother remembers sitting in Margaret 
Fox’s chair. She also learned to do the toe-snapping 
trick, and she can still do it. She demonstrated it 
for my grandfather once, but ‘‘he was very out of 
patience with us for being so skeptical.”’ 
the New 
Ase 
In the whole panoply of the paranormal, is there 
anything at all that an intelligent person can believe 
in? Perhaps belief is not the issue. The possibility is 
always there. Maybe a few of the Spiritualists did 
get messages — no one can prove otherwise. 
Maybe the saucers will finally land next month and 
show up the skeptics once and for all. ‘If we are 
only open to those discoveries which will accord 
with what we already know,’’ said Alan Watts, 
“we might as well stay shut.’’ And that is as far 
as an honest person can go. 
The real significance of the paranormal boom is 
that so many of us take it so uncritically. It is as if 
the question “Is this so?’’ has become irrelevant 
— and has been replaced by the attitude, “‘If it 
feels good, it must be right for me.” This is a 
very fundamental shift. That an objective reality 
exists outside of our internal feelings and view- 
points, and that this objective reality is worth 
studying, is a relatively new idea in the history of 
the world. It did not gain a firm foothold until as 
late as the Renaissance, and though it rapidly led 
to the sciences that have transformed the world, 
perhaps this idea is more alien to human nature 
than we might think. 
Today, nowhere is the rationalist paradigm “‘Is this 
In the New Age, the inventions of basement cranks can 
mean big money. The slick and glossy catalog from 
Supersensonic Energy Technologies of Boulder Creek, 
California, reads like a ‘Sharper Image” for yuppie 
occultists. Their Pi-Ray Coffer (above left) is supposed 
to ‘‘amplify the Pi-Ray field and filter out the negative 
green field,’’ and can be used to “‘charge objects like 
watches, rings, and crystals.’’ At $149.95, it’s sure to 
filter out the green field in your wallet. For the cabalist 
on the go, their Magnetron XT (above right) is built into 
a briefcase. It “aligns the magnetic field of the Earth” 
for you for only $99.95. The Supersensonic Extractor 
Sink (below) ‘‘amplifies the natural process of excreting 
residual toxic vibrations through your subtle energy 
field.’’ Price: $249.95. 
so?”’ more roundly attacked, and its replacement, 
“If it feels good, it must be right,’’ more self- 
consciously advocated, than in the movements 
that go collectively under the name “New Age.”’ 
| believe this paradigm has served us poorly. It has 
led countless good people to squander years of 
their brilliance and energy on shabby falsehoods. 
It has been responsible for trapping others in 
vicious cults. It may have even short-circuited just 
the sort of quantum leap in human thought that 
our theorists keep saying is just around the corner. 
Historically, paranormal movements have drawn 
more adherents from the right wing than from 
the left. No nation has a more extensive crackpot 
195 
