FOREWOR 
Oh God, how did I get into this room with all 
these weird people? 
On the other hand, it beats being in your av- 
erage movie theater, and even your average sci- 
ence conference. The believers of strange, 
strong beliefs are living a particularly ripe form 
of myth, tapping directly into hidden cultural 
structures that probably shape the rest of us as 
well, though indirectly. But how does one look 
with them without, you know, succumbing? 
The answer is provided by Ted Schultz and 
cohorts. You look into the strange beliefs with 
all the tools and skepticism of science, and you 
look into the strange believers with the tools of 
science and the sympathy of a good anthropolo- 
gist or psychologist, seeking not the insult of 
cure but the compliment of understanding. 
The urgent hand points and says “LOOK!” 
(Aliens! My past life! The spoon is bending!) 
An infant looks at the pointing hand and the ex- 
cited face. The adult looks where the hand is 
pointing. Some adults look again at the pointing 
hand and the excited face. 
The glory is in the details. Psychologist Carl 
Jung had a grand theory of the psychological 
function of flying saucers—something about a 
riven civilization seeking psychic deliverance in 
flying mandalas from Outside. 
I confess to pre- 
ferring the detailed account (p.138) of the 1940s 
invention of saucers for Amazing Stories by Ray 
Palmer. Usually I feel nothing but dismay at the 
channeling fad (which seems to be winding 
down), but one look at the photographs on p. 56 
of Jamie Sams when she is and isn’t channeling 
“Leah, a sixth density entity from the planet Ve- 
nus six hundred years in the future,” and I feel 
better. 
Jamie Sams is clearly happier and proba- 
bly is more interesting company as Leah. Long 
live the invisible friend. 
Every now and then the Truth! baldly reveals 
... the truth, small “t”. My favorite in the book 
is the Airplane Game players (p. 41) passionately 
chanting: 
One love! One love! One love! One love! 
Love one! Love one! Love one! Love one! 
God is money in action! 
Reminds me of Peter Warshall’s great insight 
about nature and human endeavor: “Water flows 
uphill toward money.” (He was referring to Los 
Angeles.) 
Do.we care which of our urban legends are 
legendary? I used to tell the one about the wet 
miniature poodle exploding in the microwave 
oven, assuming it was true. Now I tell the story 
about telling the story. In this book the much- 
loved Parable of the Hundredth Monkey (“scien- 
tists can’t understand how all the monkeys 
learned to wash potatoes at once, even on distant 
islands’’) is punctured once and for all, and the 
original perpetrator, Lyall Watson, is given space 
to comment on the puncturing (pp. 174-86). 
Now it’s become the Parable-of-the-Parable of 
the Hundredth Monkey, a far more useful tale. 
When I started hanging out with scientists in 
the last few years I was at first startled and then 
warmed to discover how comfortable they are 
with science fiction. Most read it, and many 
write it. The scientific process really is two- 
minded; it has to be to get anywhere. One mind 
gleefully speculates, the other ruthlessly slaugh- 
ters speculation. Such minds will welcome this 
book of fiction science. 
Listen! 
It’s the theme music from “The Twi- 
light Zone” backward. (Eed eed eed eed, eed eed 
eed eed...) 
YOU 
ARE 
ENTERING 
THE 
DAWN 
ZONE... 
