ception of the last phase, the last 25-year period before all 
the cycles converge and begin their ineluctable revolu- 
tions once again. “August 15th and 16th is like a vortex 
reaching its apex, or point, and then it opens out again. . 
. 
as the vortex opens out, it starts another cycle where we 
enter a condition where we’ll be experiencing a mental re- 
polarization.” 
Although Arguelles gave voice to the theoretical back- 
ground of the Harmonic Convergence, the date itself had 
been bandied about by other independent sources. Jim 
Berenholtz, a New Yorker who had been interested in Na- 
tive American prophecies since his early teens and who 
later coordinated the ceremonies at the sacred sites, had 
come across the importance of the date August 16/17 on 
his own, long before hearing of Arguelles’ arcane calen- 
drics. He had noticed that it coincided with Krishna’s 
birthday and that August 17th marked the rising of Sirius 
as the Morning Star (and thus the flooding of the Nile). 
One friend had told him “he got the word” about the aus- 
picious date while sitting in the bathtub. And he had 
heard of a woman, who, while in the throes of an ecstatic 
orgasm, heard a voice yell in her ear “August 16th.” (She 
didn’t understand the significance of this information until 
some time later, when she happened to hear a lecture 
about the Harmonic Convergence.) 
Arguelles described the phase entered after that date 
as a reversal of the “resonant field paradigm” (in Mayan 
terms the 13th “baktun’’), which began in 1618 with Des- 
cartes’ publication of The Meditations. The new resonant 
field paradigm will be less rational, more in tune with the 
needs of the planet. The Harmonic Convergence marked 
the inception of a new era of history; it was Childhood’s 
End. 
In an interview in Magical Blend, Arguelles had this 
to say about the coming years: “By the summer of 1992 
the resistance of the collapsing old mental house will 
pretty much come to an end. At this point, we enter an- 
other twenty-year phase . 
. 
. the very last twenty years of 
the entire Mayan Great Cycle, which began in 3113 B.c. 
In this last twenty-year cycle, once we’ve got the old ma- 
chine stopped, we’ll witness the final full flowering of the 
species we call Homo Sapiens. We’re just about done... 
we’re going to be given the opportunity to relax and let a 
final flowering occur. By 2102 a.p. when the cycle closes 
out, that’s when we shift to evolutionary patterns and 
that’s when we get completely interfaced with what I call 
the galactic federation.” 
It is not clear that all those who participated in the 
Harmonic Convergence understood that the fate of the 
planet hung in the balance. Some did. Several hard-core 
groups of believers made pilgrimages to the sacred sites. 
Jim Berenholtz, the self-appointed head of the coordina- 
tion of the sacred sites, had visited many of them in 
preparation for the important date. The task of those who 
journeyed to the sacred sites was specific: they were 
“Jaying the circuitry.” “The result is that we are acting 
collectively as ‘cosmic electricians’, charging up power 
points and ley lines, Weaving the Great Web, so that when 
our ceremonies ‘flick the switch’ on Harmonic Conver- 
gence, the lights will go on!” 
er 
The Mayan Factor 
This is the book that invented the Harmonic Convergence. 
It’s got everything: ancient astronauts, the face on Mars, 
UFOs, geomancy, morphogenetic fields, the | Ching, prophecy, 
planetary transformation, pyramid power, crystals, DNA, May- 
ans, Egyptians . 
. 
. all woven together in a monumental work 
of eccentric scholarship. Arguelles says that the ancient May- 
ans weren't human; instead, they were aliens from the Galac- 
tic Federation, who, shortly after 800 4.D., departed from Earth 
in luminous cocoons. 
But they left behind their calendar as a 
clue, and now—Jjust in time—Arguelles has deciphered it. It 
turns out they’re coming back in 1992, when earthlings will 
forsake their rationalist, technological ways and tune into the 
Galactic Mind. 
Like his predecessors John Taylor and Piazzi Smith in the 
1800s, men who applied convoluted arithmetic to the meas- 
urements of the Great Pyramid to construct elaborate theories 
about religious cosmology, history, and the future, Arguelles is 
in love with numbers. 
In fact, his book should be subtitled 
"Path Beyond Numerology." 
There are numbers—lots of num- 
bers—on every page, describing historical “baktun cycles,” 
“the loom of Maya,” “the Harmonic Module,” and “pulsation 
rays” that are manifestations of the Galactic Code. And Ar- 
guelles’ complex occult cosmology is profusely delineated with 
loads of arcane diagrams, which, to my mind, are the best 
part of the book. 
The amazing thing is that, despite its decidedly esoteric 
nature, the “Harmonic Convergence” idea somehow took off, 
and was observed by people all over the planet who obviously 
had never even heard of this book, let alone the Galactic Fed- 
eration. 
Get ready for 1992. 
—T.S. 
e 
Instantaneously releasing themselves through chromo-mo- 
lecular transport into the farther reaches of the galaxy whence 
they had come, the Mayan sages nonetheless also prepared 
for a return. When? Well, most certainly during the last of the 
52 galactic-activation katuns, A.D. 1992-2012, the katun sig- 
nified as 13 AHAU, the most exalted number, the sign of Solar 
Mastery. 
But even in the immediate present, their return is 
imminent, for the moment soon arrives when the wave engen- 
dered by the Christian figurehead, Cortés, in A.D. 1519 will be 
turned around. That moment is August 16-17, 1987. Called 
Harmonic Convergence, August 16-17, 1987, kin 1863022 
and 1863023, is the first Mayan-return entry point, a temporal 
planetary Tollan at which time their presence will be perceived 
by some as an inner light and by others as feathered serpent 
rainbow wheels turning in the air. Accompanying the resonant 
frequency shift, the luminous wave-forms of Quetzalcoatl will 
re-enter the atmosphere. 
The Mayan Factor 
Path Beyond Technology 
José Arguelles 
1987; 221 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.95 postpaid) from: 
Bear & Co. 
P.O. Drawer 2860 
Santa Fe, NM 
87504-2860 
800/932-3277 
4g0) 
=) 
EVM 
MW 
TE 
REPTILE BRAIN 
GALACTIC CHANNEL, 
RESONANT FIELD MODEL 
