Arnold Burke 
of Temple, 
Texas, and his 
“self-contained 
hydro-electric 
power system,” 
the machine 
named “Jere- 
miah 33:3.” 
out that the wire connected a battery pack under a bunk in 
an adjoining room to an electric pump in Jeremiah’s in- 
nards. Burke was arrested and indicted on multiple 
counts of theft and perjury. 
Burke claimed he only installed the electric pump to 
prevent the disclosure of Jeremiah’s real secret, and many 
of his investors kept the faith. In the spring of 1980, 
while Burke was on trial for one count of fraud, faithful 
followers raised another $250,000 and bought out dis- 
gruntled investors for sixty-six cents on the dollar! The 
trial ended with the jury hung eleven to one for convic- 
tion. That fall, Burke won a directed acquittal on another 
charge of fraud. At last report, he was back in his labora- 
tory, working the kinks out of Jeremiah’s design. 
Kenyon Alternator 
Jeremiah 33:3 was a classical perpetual motion ma- 
chine of the type most inventors since Keely have aban- 
doned. The newest wrinkle on the perpetual motion scene 
is the “over-unity” motor. This is a device that requires an 
external source of power, but supposedly produces more 
power than it uses. The Kenyon Alternator was an excel- 
lent example. 
The Kenyon Alternator was invented in the late 1970s 
by Dr. Keith Kenyon, then personal physician of former 
Los Angeles mayor Sam Yorty, and was further developed 
by Solar World, Inc.,a Glendale, California, producer of 
wind turbines and other alternative energy devices. The 
Kenyon Alternator was essentially an alternating-current 
generator that reversed the roles of the usual components. 
Instead of rotating coils of wire in a magnetic field, it had 
permanent magnets mounted on the periphery of a wheel 
and rotated them in an array of coils. 
Solar World held a Hollywood-style press conference 
and demonstration on its premises March 22, 1979. For- 
mer Mayor Yorty and ventriloquist Paul Winchell were 
present, and former astronaut Gordon Cooper was ex- 
pected but didn’t show up. Representatives of five televi- 
sion Stations and several radio stations and newspapers 
126 
were there. The Kenyon Alternator was turned by a five- 
horsepower motor, and it produced enough electricity to 
light a panel of one hundred light bulbs. Solar World per- 
sonnel monitored instruments and posted figures on a 
blackboard purportedly showing the motor to be using 
5,936 watts while the generator put out 7,512 watts, or 
nearly 27 percent more than input energy. They denied 
that the device was a perpetual motion machine, saying its 
energy source was probably neutrinos. (As neutrinos 
typically pass through the earth without reacting, it’s not 
clear how they could be harnessed by the Kenyon Alter- 
nator.) 
Rather than neutrinos, the “secret” of the Kenyon Al- 
ternator seems to have been the monitoring instruments 
and the way they were used. Simple AC voltmeters and 
ammeters are calibrated for sinusoidal waveforms; if the 
output of the Kenyon alternator wasn’t a sine wave, the 
instrument readings were wrong. Furthermore, calcula- 
tions of power must consider “power factor,” which de- 
pends on the phase relationship between voltage and cur- 
rent. Solar World considered the advertised (not meas- 
ured) power factor of the drive motor, but they apparently 
didn’t consider the power factor of the Kenyon Alternator 
itself. 
The acid test, of course, would be to hook the output 
of the Kenyon Alternator up to the input of the motor that 
drives it. Dr. Kenyon and his associates were aware of 
this, and talked of building a Kenyon Motor for the ex- 
periment. If this obvious and crucial test was ever per- 
formed, I haven’t heard of it, and the Kenyon Alternator 
faded away. 
The Newman Energy Machine 
Joseph W. Newman, an inventor from Lucedale, Mis- 
sissippi, first got national attention on January 9, 1984, 
when Dan Rather of CBS News gave a brief report on his 
“energy machine.” The Newman Energy Machine is a di- 
rect-current electric motor that differs from conventional 
DC motors in several respects, including its very high 
voltage and very low amperage. In his patent application 
filed in 1979, Newman called it an “Energy Generation 
System Having Higher Energy Output than Input.” In- 
deed, Newman has claimed that the motor’s efficiency is 
as high as 800 percent. After a long battle, the Patent Of- 
fice refused to grant a patent, saying the device "smacks 
of a perpetual motion machine.” Newman filed suit. 
Newman’s case first went to court in mid-1984. After 
some wrangling, Judge Thomas Jackson appointed a 
“Special Master,” electrical engineer and patent attorney 
William E. Schuyler, Jr., to investigate. On September 28, 
1984, Schuyler reported: “Evidence before the Patent and 
Trademark Office and the Court is overwhelming that 
Newman built and tested a prototype of his invention in 
which the output energy exceeds the external input en- 
ergy; there is no contradictory factual evidence.” 
The Patent Office remained skeptical and refused to 
grant a patent. As with the Kenyon Alternator, there were 
questions about the test instruments used. The Patent Of- 
fice recommended that Newman turn the device over to 
the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) for further test- 
