to imagine a rather different response from the 
reader if Brain/Mind Bulletin had introduced the 
monkey story by referring to Watson as a writer 
on the occult. 
Another example of “authority transfer” can 
be found in Tom Cooper’s review of the film, 
The Hundredth Monkey, which appeared in the 
May 1983 issue of the Association for Humanistic 
Psychology Newsletter. In asserting that the Hun- 
dredth Monkey thesis is “substantiated” he says, 
“Rupert Sheldrake, the Cambridge scientist, 
reports that when one group of rats was taught 
...” The implication here is clear and misleading. 
The statement conveys the impression that Shel- 
drake (a) is currently on the faculty at Cambridge; 
(b) does scientific research there; (c) knows a lot 
about rats; (d) is “reporting” on his own research. 
If we look at Sheldrake’s own book, A New Science 
of Life, we find that he was once a scholar at a 
Cambridge College, and is described as currently 
a consultant at an international research institute 
in India. His research is on the physiology of 
tropical plants. Again, the impact would be very 
different if Cooper had written, “Rupert Sheldrake, 
tropical plant physiologist in an Indian crop 
research center, says that when one group of rats 
...” This kind of “credentialeering” is obviously 
intended to give credibility to scientific-sounding 
propositions. Such authority-borrowing works 
because institutions such as Cambridge University 
and disciplines such as biology have, despite oc- 
casional, widely publicized aberrations, lived up 
to their reputations for reliability. 
Another characteristic of pseudoscience is its 
profound ambivalence toward the scientific 
establishment. Despite his identification as a 
biologist, Watson’s work carries within it clear 
evidence of his ambivalence. On one hand, he 
uses research findings to try to support his con- 
viction about critical mass theory in human 
184 
events. On the other hand, he suggests that the 
scientific community is less than honest when he 
tells us that these same researchers were reluc- 
tant to publish what they suspected was the 
truth. He panders to the popular distrust of 
science by suggesting that this reluctance was 
due to fear of ridicule by, one assumes, the 
scientific community. 
Those who engage in pseudoscience want it both 
ways. They want the authority of science but are 
unwilling to abide by the rules by which the 
scientific community earned its authority in the 
first place. Pseudoscientists and their publishers 
may actually use criticism of their ideas by the 
scientific community as evidence that they are 
important because they are controversial. They 
seem to reason that because Einstein was con- 
troversial, anyone who is controversial must be 
an Einstein. On the jacket of the U.S. paperback 
edition of Sheldrake’s A New Science of Life is the 
proud claim that the British scientific journal 
Nature had suggested that the book was “the best 
candidate for burning there has been for many 
years.” As the designers of trade-book jackets are 
well aware, such outbursts by the scientific estab- 
lishment only enhance a work’s attractiveness to 
a generation of lay people fed up with the excesses 
of “more orthodox than thou’ attitudes of the 
scientific establishment. 
This ambivalence toward establishment science 
strikes an immediate and comforting chord in 
the minds of a public that is not only ambivalent 
about science, but largely ignorant. It is difficult 
for the uninitiated to distinguish between good 
science, bad science, and pseudoscience. Appraisal 
becomes especially difficult when isolated pieces 
of scientific knowledge are abstracted from their 
contexts within the broad, interwoven fabric of 
scientific thought. It is context that makes know- 
ledge out of data. This is true not only for sciences, 
but for all areas of advanced knowledge such as 
