UFO 
FOLKIEORE 
CRASHED 
SAUCERS 
The Ultimate Secret? 
by Jerome Clark 
HE FIRST EXTRATERRESTRIAL SPACESHIP TO 
crash on earthly soil met its doom long before the 
words “flying saucer” and “unidentified flying object” 
entered the terrestrial vocabulary. The event occurred on 
June 6, 1884, in Dundy County in south-central Nebraska 
and was witnessed by cowboys, one of whom was perma- 
nently blinded by the intense heat emanating from the 
device. The Nebraska Nugget, published in Holdrege 100 
miles from the site of the accident, reported that the object 
was “about 50 or 60 feet long, cylindrical, and about 10 or 
12 feet in diameter.” Unfortunately, according to the Nu g- 
get’s anonymous correspondent, what remained of the 
ship dissolved “like a spoonful of salt” during a blinding 
rainstorm. 
The story, of course, was a practical joke, though that 
wasn’t immediately apparent decades later to ufologists 
who rediscovered the initial newspaper account—but not 
the follow-up—with its telltale reference to the substance 
with which readers were slyly advised to ingest the ac- 
count. In any case, even lifelong residents of the county, 
investigators found, had never heard of the incident, al- 
though an active local historical society kept careful rec- 
ords of notable events in pioneer times. 
Likewise, another nineteenth-century story, redis- 
covered in the 1960s and re-rediscovered in the 1970s, set 
ufologists’ blood racing until it was learned that no, a 
spaceship did not plow into Judge J.S. Proctor’s windmill 
in Aurora, Texas, on April 17, 1897, despite the assertions 
of the Dallas Morning Post two days later. The Post re- 
ported soberly that the “badly disfigured” body of a Mar- 
tian was found in the wreckage. Many years afterwards, 
ufologists learned that the story was concocted by a local 
writer seeking to draw attention to a town badly in need 
of same: the railroad had passed it by and a spotted-fever 
epidemic had decimated the population. 
But stories of crashed spaceships—otherwise known 
as the “Ultimate Secret”—didn’t come into their own un- 
til 1947, following the celebrated June 24 Kenneth Arnold 
sighting which ushered in the UFO age. Two weeks later, 
when the remains of an aerial object were found on a 
ranch near remote Corona, New Mexico, newspapers re- 
ported that a flying saucer had crashed. Then the Air 
atl 
AAS 
1, 
pp, 
Pp 
SEA 
\\) 
el 
a 
: 
, 
aw 
reat 
Tf 
Se 
Nae 
yi 
y 
; 
ri) 
ee 
< A 
t 
“4 i 
I 
{ 
EYE 
SSG 
i 
Aan 
et 
, 
7 
veo 
. 
. 
n\ 
; 
i 
SSS 
L 
th aa 
: Harry 
S. 
Robins 
Force said it had all been a big mistake; the “saucer” was 
just a balloon with an attached radar calibration instru- 
ment. This, as it happened, was a lie, but it was one that 
would go uncaught for over three decades. 
In 1950, in the most audacious crashed-disc hoax of 
them all, Variety columnist Frank Scully reported in his 
best-selling Behind the Flying Saucers that three space- 
ships had crashed in the Southwest, and that the military 
had snatched them along with the bodies of their small 
humanlike pilots. Scully’s sources, as it turned out, were 
two shady characters who had concocted the story as part 
of an elaborate scam to peddle a bogus oil-detection de- 
vice. Scully seems to have been an innocent victim of the 
swindle, but his book cast a long shadow: for the next 
two and a half decades, no serious UFO student would 
pay attention to crashed-disc stories. 
That doesn’t mean they didn’t continue to circulate in 
popular culture. They became a kind of urban folklore 
and inspired a slew of science-fiction and suspense novels 
and movies. Many of the stories centered on a “Blue 
Room” at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, where wreck- 
age and humanoid bodies were supposedly stored. In the 
mid-1960s Senator Barry Goldwater, a major general in 
the Air Force reserve, asked his friend General Curtis 
LeMay if he could see what was there. LeMay gave him 
“holy hell,” Goldwater recalled (New Yorker, April 25, 
1988), informed him that he did not have a sufficiently 
high security clearance, and warned him never to bring up 
the subject again. 
Ten years later two civilian investigators, writer Wil- 
liam Moore and nuclear scientist Stanton Friedman, en- 
countered people who were in Roswell, New Mexico, in 
July 1947, when the object that the Air Force claimed was 
a balloon crashed near Corona. In the course of an inves- 
tigation that continued into the early 1980s, Moore and 
Friedman interviewed more than ninety persons involved 
in one way or another with what came to be called the 
“Roswell incident.” These included military and civilian 
intelligence officers, the family on whose property the 
material fell, local reporters, and others. The material was 
described as a strangely light but extremely tough metal 
and there were, in one witness’s words, “strange hiero- 
glyphic typewriting symbols across the inner surfaces” re- 
sembling the characters of no terrestrial language. Those 
involved in the recovery of the material believed it was 
from an extraterrestrial spacecraft. They also said the 
weather-balloon identification was a cover story invented 
by the authorities at Eighth Air Force Headquarters in 
Fort Worth, where the material was taken immediately af- 
In the following four pages, two ufologists present capsule histories of three of the most colorful legends in UFO 
lore: crashed 
saucers, the men in black, and the humanoids. Jerome Clark is the editor of the International UFO Reporter; Dennis Stacy is the 
editor of the MUFON UFO Journal (see p. 
163 for reviews of both publications). 
—TrS. 
153 
