The Divining Hand 
We started building a house last year. 
| called the local 
utility company to come out and mark their underground pipes 
and wires so | wouldn't dig them up. They sent a dowser, who 
found them. 
The same with the phone company. An article in 
the local paper said a nearby city has three dowsers in their 
engineering department. 
One of their tasks is to find “mis- 
placed” sewer and water pipes. 
Out here everybody has a water well. Most of my neigh- 
bors, or at least my neighbors’ well-drillers, have had positive 
dealings with dowsers. 
The success of the biggest well-driller 
in town is based on the ability of its founding brothers to find 
water by dowsing. 
The local junior college has a class in 
dowsing. 
| took it, and | can tell you this: The movement of 
the wand, switch, or bent wire is positive, strong, and, most 
significantly, repeatable. 
| don’t consider myself psychic and | 
don’t knowingly practice magic. 
The dowsing device, whether 
a willow fork or a metal rod, is carried to magnify the other- 
wise imperceptible reaction of the body to a tiny stimulus. 
And experimental evidence seems to point to minute differ- 
ences in the earth’s magnetic field as that stimulus. 
At least that’s the conclusion arrived at in The Divining 
Hand, and the organs responsible for sensing the stimulus are 
even identified: the adrenal gland and either the pituitary or 
the pineal gland. But that’s three-quarters of the way through 
the book. Before we learn the science we get the history (in- 
cluding the little-known use of dowsing techniques by U.S. Ma- 
rines to locate Viet Cong tunnels during the Vietnam War), 
folklore, and myth. There’s also plenty of art. Easily the most 
illustrated and attractive book in a field dominated by limited- 
budget efforts or academic put-downs, The Divining Hand is a 
comprehensive, plausible, and entertaining exposition of the 
dowser’s art and science. 
If someone tells me the earth is flat, | don’t believe him 
because it runs contrary to my personal experience and the 
evidence | see around me. 
If someone tells me human 
senses are limited to sight, hearing, touch, taste, and smell, 
Water Witching U.S.A. 
This is the only book-length scientific study of dowsing, 
and, perhaps not coincidentally, it stands alone among dows- 
ing books in its conclusions. 
The authors, an anthropologist 
(Vogt) and a psychologist (Hyman), carried out their research 
under the auspices of the Laboratory of Social Relations and 
the Department of Psychology at Harvard University, working 
both with dowsers and geologists (one of whom contributed an 
appendix). 
In addition to their own investigations, Vogt and 
Hyman present an overview of history and folklore, and a sur- 
vey of modern research. 
They discuss the questions we all 
wonder about: What makes the rod move? (Their conclusion: 
the same unconscious muscle actions that move the Ouija 
board planchette.) Does either the rod or the dowser himself 
sense some sort of “unknown energy” emanating from the 
sought-after water, oil, ore, or lost object? (Conclusion: experi- 
ments suggest that dowsers are responding to subtle but nor- 
mal sensory cues in the environment—when these are re- 
moved, their performance falls to chance level. And of course, 
“map dowsers” who perform at locations distant from the site 
couldn't be detecting such “energies” anyway.) How accurate 
is dowsing? (Unless sensory cues are present, not very.) 
Does this mean that dowsing doesn’t work? Not exactly— 
it works sometimes, but not for the reasons people think, and 
not any better than geological methods (which often don’t work 
either). 
Why people continue to “believe” in dowsing, what 
kinds of people practice it, what the prevailing attitudes are 
toward it in different regions of the U.S.—all of these form the 
substance of Water Witching U.S.A. Read it for the minority 
viewpoint on the subject. 
—T.S. 
66 
The Divining Hand 
The 500-Year-Old Mystery of Dowsing 
Christopher Bird 
1979, 1985; 350 pp. 
$15 
($16.50 postpaid) from: 
New Age Press 
Route 2, Box 184 
Waynesville, NC 28786 
704/926-9355 
and that “water witches” are playing us the fool—well, that 
hasn't been my experience either, and I'll send them to The 
Divining Hand. 
—Don Ryan 
e 
During the ongoing process of his research [Dr. Zaboj V.] 
Harvalik himself has become so expert in remote, map, and 
information dowsing, the physics of which he cannot yet begin 
to explain, that he was able while in Australia to perplex and 
amaze a Sydney Water Board engineer who, skeptical of dows- 
ing, put him to the test. 
Giving Harvalik the name of one of 
Sydney’s many reservoirs, the engineer asked him in which di- 
rection it might lie from where both men were standing and 
how far away. 
After dowsing for both answers Harvalik drew 
an azimuth on a piece of paper fixed to a table and called the 
distance at 12.6 miles. When the engineer checked his an- 
swers on a map, both were correct. 
“Can you tell me how deep it is?” he asked. 
When Harvalik answered sixty-eight feet, the engineer 
pulled a booklet from his pocket, flipped a few pages, checked 
a figure, and said: “Well, you’re a little off, but not much. The 
actual depth is seventy-five feet.” The following day, on their 
way back from a sightseeing tour of the Great Divide, the engi- 
neer made a slight detour to show Harvalik the reservoir he 
had dowsed the day before. When they arrived at its edge he 
noticed somewhat to his astonishment that the water had 
dropped from its normal level. Turning to a water board em- 
ployee he asked: “What’s the level of the water today?” 
“Sixty-eight feet,” came the reply. 
e 
An excellent example of an experiment 
. 
. 
. is the one per- 
formed by the American Society for Psychical Research. .. 
. 
The field was carefully chosen, so that such cues as surface 
water, wells, and other indicators of the presence or absence 
of water were absent. 
. 
. 
. Each diviner witched the field in his 
own manner 
. 
. 
. All told, the experimenters ran a total of 
twenty-seven diviners. .. 
. 
As acontrol, two “experts,” a geologist and a water engi- 
neer, made estimates of the depth and rate of flow of the un- 
derground water at sixteen different points 
. 
. 
. by “relying upon 
normal utilization of facts about underground water.” 
Test wells were then sunk at each of the spots assessed 
by the diviners and experts 
. 
. 
. The results showed that the ex- 
perts did a good job of estimating the over-all depth of the wa- 
ter as well as the depth of specific points.- Neither expert dida 
| 
good job in guessing the amount of water to be found at spe- 
cific points, although the engineer made a close guess on the 
over-all estimate of the rate of flow. The diviners, on the other 
hand, were complete failures in terms of estimating the depth 
or the amount of water to be found at their selected spots... 
. 
This was true not only for the group as a whole but for each di- 
viner as an individual. 
Water Witching U.S.A. 
Evon Z. Vogt and Ray Hyman 
1959, 1979; 271 pp. 
$5.95 
($6.95 postpaid) from: 
University of Chicago Press 
11030 South Langley Ave. 
Chicago, IL 60628 
312/568-1550 
