Lost Continents 
Atlantis played a key role in the cosmologies of Blavatsky, 
Steiner, and others influenced by Theosophy. And in the New 
Age, I've met many people who are as sure of the existence of 
Atlantis as they are of the Roman Empire. Most of them even 
recall “past lives” 
lived there (as kings and princesses rather 
than as serfs and slaves, of course). 
Since the nineteenth 
century, the lost continent of the Atlantic has provided occult- 
ists with a blank screen onto which to project their wildest 
mythic fantasies, unfettered by consideration for historical ac- 
curacy. 
But where did the Atlantis legend come from? Is there 
any truth to it? What book to read for an accurate history? 
L. Sprague de Camp's Lost Continents provides reliable an- 
swers, exploring the origin of the story (a dialogue by Plato 
from 355 B.C.), its embellishments over time, and even its 
use as a Setting in fantasy novels. Also discussed is the lost 
continent of Mu, a.k.a. Lemuria (which now lies beneath the 
Pacific, according to various occult writers). De Camp even 
outlines the relevant research in geology, geography, and ar- 
chaeology and, in a useful appendix, he reprints all of the ma- 
jor references to Atlantis from classical texts. 
—T.S. 
e 
The late Guy Warren Ballard, alias Godfré Ray King, 
founder of the | AM cult, claimed to have met his personal 
Master, Saint Germain, on Mount Shasta. 
Saint Germain 
seems to be a Mahatma remotely derived from the Comte de 
Saint-Germain, a slippery eighteenth-century European occultist 
and industrial promoter. 
Ballard, who graduated from selling 
stock in imaginary gold mines to old ladies, into occultism, 
picked elements of his grotesque mythology from Oliver's book, 
from Theosophy, from Christian Science, from Rosicrucianism, 
and from the Swamis, and reduced the resulting mishmash to 
the mental level of those comic-books whose covers show a 
muscular hero in a ballet-suit tearing a battleship asunder with 
his bare hands. 
Ballard told how his Master showed him. 
. 
. magical mov- 
ies of his former lives. He was delighted to learn thus that he 
was a reincarnation of George Washington and his wife of Joan 
of Arc. And of course he learned about Atlantis, Lemuria, and 
other vanished civilizations. 
e 
From some unnamed source [English Theosophist W. 
Scott-Elliot] quotes a description of a Lemurian: 
He was be- 
tween twelve and fifteen feet tall with a brown skin, a flat face 
with a protruding muzzle, and small eyes set so wide apart that 
he could see sideways as well as forward. 
He had no fore- 
head, but was furnished with a third eye in back, which among 
us is still represented by the pineal gland in the brain. 
His long 
limbs could not be completely straightened, and he had huge 
hands and feet, the heels of which stuck out so far to the rear 
that he could walk equally well backward and forward. 
He wore 
a loose robe of reptile skin, carried 
a wooden spear, and led a 
pet plesiosaur on a leash. 
Lost Continents 
The Atlantis Theme 
in History, Science, 
and Literature 
L. Sprague de Camp 
1954, 1970; 348pp. 
$6.50 
($7.75 postpaid) 
from: 
Dover Publications 
Attn: CRX 
31 East Second St. 
Mineola, NY 11501 
Map of Atlantis from Athanasius 
Kircher’s Mundus Subterraneus (1644). 
Note that, in contrast to modern maps, 
north is down and south up. 
po elecges: 
OT 
800/223-3130 an 
Mark Prophet (1918-1973) and his wife Elizabeth Clare Prophet (1940-present), 
who founded the Summit Lighthouse (a.k.a. the Church Universal and Triumphant) 
In 1958. Mark dled In 1973, but under Ellzabeth (the “Messenger of the Mas- 
ters”), the Church has continued to grow, currently sponsoring three different 
cable television shows, a publishing house, and an educational Institution. 
Myth 
In the 1970s, Benjamin Creme, an English follower of 
the Bailey teachings, established his own psychic contacts 
with the returning Christ (also referred to as “The 
Maitreya”), and began to release channeled messages and 
announcements, many of which promised the Christ’s un- 
veiling as an Asian immigrant in East London. Every few 
years, Creme would set off on a new lecture tour and run 
newspaper ads announcing that the Christ was about to go 
public, only to have the imminent date pass uneventfully. 
Perhaps this indicates uncommon wisdom on the Christ’s 
part, since an actual public appearance would likely result 
in His disembowelment by fundamentalist Christians con- 
vinced that he was the Antichrist! 
This is not the place to determine whether the Masters 
might be considered an enduring hoax or represent an ac- 
tual force for good at work behind the scenes. In a recent 
study, Steve Richards (see bibliography) has dug up some 
intriguing circumstantial evidence suggesting that the 
original Masters behind the T.S. were actual members of 
the Tibetan Kargyu sect, supporting the early Theoso- 
phists’ assertions that the Masters existed in flesh and 
blood, commonly writing letters with normal pen and ink. 
At what point the Masters became “ascended” and acces- 
sible only by channelers is unclear, though Richards notes 
that a scheduled visit in 1917 by the Master Morya to H. 
Spencer Lewis, founder of a Rosicrucian group (The 
Ancient and Mystical Order of the Rosae Crucis, or 
AMORC), was cancelled because “it turned out he [Mor- 
ya] had died the very day he was supposed to arrive in 
New York”! 
Movements as diverse as biodynamic farming and the 
Waldorf Schools owe their existence to the teachings of 
Rudolf Steiner, who began his esoteric career by joining 
the T.S. in Berlin in 1902. He shortly became general sec- 
retary of the German Section and remained so for the next 
decade. Steiner’s own views were much more aligned 
