Illustrations like 
this one from 
Besant and 
Leadbeater’s 
Thought Forms 
(1901) had a 
strong Influence 
on the rise of 
modern art. 
Depicted here 
is the “thought 
form” generated 
by an organist’s 
rendition of a 
Gounod chorus. 
“The organist 
has evidently 
finished some 
minutes ago, 
and the per- 
fected shape 
floats high in 
the alr, clearly 
defined and 
roughly spher- 
Ileal...” 
past T.S. leaders negates the positive influences of the T.S. 
on the rise of twentieth-century spirituality. The T.S. was 
instrumental in introducing many Eastern religious con- 
cepts to the West that we now take for granted, including 
reincarnation and karma. It also brought to the surface 
more esoteric metaphysical teachings such as those of the 
chakra system, the bodily aura, and the division of con- 
sciousness into several subtle planes—all concepts that 
have been embraced by New Age groups. In many cases, 
books published by Theosophical publishers on these sub- 
jects were the first of their kind, and many remain in print 
to this day. 
Moreover, while the present T.S. may seem superfi- 
cially less exciting than its predecessors, it is also a sta- 
bler and more reliable source of information about the 
Gnosis 
The author of the accompanying brief history of Theosophy 
and its relatives is editor of his own magazine. 
It’s called 
Gnosis: A Journal of the Western Inner Traditions, and, so far 
at least, each issue has been devoted to a different esoteric 
topic, including “Secret Societies,” “Oracles and Channeling,” 
“Heresies and Heretics,” and “The Kabbalah.” Largely due to 
editor Kinney’s refreshing perspective on the subject, Gnosis 
possesses a combination of characters rare in the contempo- 
rary literature of spirituality: a high level of scholarship, a 
“hands on” approach to inner exploration, and a healthy sense 
of humor and fun. Thus you might find an article about the 
Gnosis 
A Journal of the Western Inner Traditions 
Jay Kinney, Editor 
$15/year 
(4 issues) from: 
Gnosis 
P.O. Box 14217 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
30 
esoteric streams of spirituality than in days past. The 
Olcott Library at the T.S. headquarters in Wheaton, which 
loans books by mail to the public, has arguably the best 
circulating collection of books on all aspects of metaphys- 
ics and the occult in the U.S. The monthly introductory 
letters that new T.S. members receive for their first two 
years in the organization are a uniquely succinct introduc- 
tion to the basics of esotericism. New Age fads come and 
go; organizations and gurus rise and fall; and still the T.S. 
remains, calmly offering information and assistance. 
I have no idea whether a planetary New Age is really 
in the offing (and frankly, I doubt it), but if it does arrive 
I’m sure that the Theosophical Society will deserve a 
good share of the credit. 
2 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 
I am indebted to the following sources for much of the material 
that appears in this article. However, they should in no way be 
saddled with responsibility for my judgments or interpretations. 
Anonymous. (The United Lodge of Theosophists.) 1925. The 
Theosophical Movement 1875-1950. New York: Dutton. 
Bruce F. Campbell. 
1980. Ancient Wisdom Revived: A History 
of the Theosophical Movement. Berkeley: University of Califor- 
nia Press. 
Michael Gomes. 1987. The Dawning of the Theosophical 
Movement. Wheaton, Illinois: Quest Books. 
Los Angeles County Museum of Art. 1986. The Spiritual in 
Art: Abstract Painting 
1890-1985. New York: Abbeville Press. 
Steve Richards. 1988. “The Mystery of the Great White Broth- 
erhood,” Parts 1 & 2. The American Theosophist, March & 
April, 1988. 
Gregory Tillett. 1982. The Elder Brother: A Biography of 
Charles Webster Leadbeater. Boston: Routledge & Kegan Paul. 
James Webb. 1974. The Occult Underground. La Salle, Ili- 
nois: Open Court Press. 
The Theosophical Society keeps many classics of occultisr 
in print, and publishes new works as well. It also issues 
the 
_ 
Theosophical Research Journal and The Quest, a general-in- . 
terest magazine. For information contact: a se 
: 
ciety, 1926 N. Main Street, P.O. Box 270, Wheaton, a 
oO” 800/654-9429, 
mystical revelations of science-fiction writer Philip K. Dick side- 
by-side with an erudite history of Freemasonry, or a tongue-in- 
cheek look at the Priory of Zion by Robert Anton Wilson juxta- 
posed with a Jungian interpretation of alchemical symbolism. 
If you'd like to delve deeper into esoteric Western mystical tra- 
ditions, tap into the ongoing dialogue in Gnosis. 
—T.S. 
e 
Much remains mysterious about the oracular procedure at 
Delphi, but a few details are Known. 
Before delivering an or- 
acle, the priestess of Apollo, known as the Pythia, underwent a 
period of fasting and purification, bathing in the Castalian 
Spring. After rituals of purification, she would enter the inner 
sanctum of the temple where she chewed laurel leaves from 
the grove of Apollo. A small fire of laurel leaves and barley was 
ignited on the altar and the priestess drank from the spring 
Cassotis, a streamlet of which flowed into the temple. The Py- 
thia then sat upon the sacred Tripod and delivered the oracles 
which were recorded by priests. 
Certain statements of ancient 
writers have been interpreted as indicating that there was a 
chasm beneath the Tripod from which oracular vapors issued 
from the Earth, but archaeological evidence has not been found 
to support this. 
