This attitude may be all right as long as we restrict 
shamanism to weekend consciousness workshops. It may 
be all right as regards the entertainment function of sha- 
manism. The “neoshamanism” of Castaneda, Andrews, 
and their imitators has an important failing, however: it is 
rarely practiced for the benefit of a community except at 
second-hand through books. Even if we avoid the aca- 
demic reductionists who claim that shamanism is the ar- 
tistic outlet of recovering psychotics, we must remember 
that traditional shamans are very involved with their com- 
munities. I will never forget a remark made to my wife 
and me in 1978 by Janet Farrar, a well-known English 
witch who had lived in Ireland the past decade or more. 
As we strolled down a road near her home in County 
Wexford, she discussed the local people’s reaction to her 
and her husband Stewart’s arrival. Once they are over the 
initial shock, she said, they accept you. And then, she 
continued, they expect results: “If they come to you with 
piles, you had better know where the “hemorrhoid-wort’ 
grows!” It is a considerable step from entertaining a 
reader to being a trustworthy guide to the magical healer’s 
world. 
Consumers of magical autobiography and weekend 
workshops often come expecting “easy access” to ancient 
wisdom. After all, is not Lynn Andrews hardly off the 
plane to some exotic locale before traditional medicine 
people are running to reveal their secrets to her? Earnest 
seekers who would be enraged at the idea of a freeway 
through Yellowstone Park expect a four-lane highway to 
shamanic knowledge. When a more classic tale of experi- 
ence emerges, they do not even recognize it. A reviewer 
for Harvest, a New England journal of modern Neo-Pa- 
ganism, was baffled by Birth of a Modern Shaman, the 
biography of Tayja Wiger. Wiger, an Indian, illustrates 
the classic type of the “wounded healer” who must hit 
bottom (alcoholism, prostitution, mental illness, hysterical 
blindness) before she herself can be a healer. She is cured 
of her blindness at a metaphysical Christian healing serv- 
ice and slowly rebuilds her life, first in a group home and 
later on her own. Ordained as a Spiritualist minister, she 
becomes a healer herself. But, finding no astral battles 
with rival sorcerers and no locales more exotic than Min- 
nesota, the reviewer pronounced the book “murky” and 
said that “seekers of real mysteries are likely to feel that 
they’ve just left a banquet where all the wrong food was 
served.” Perhaps that is because the food was not the usu- 
al Coke and pizza to which the seekers are accustomed. 
This is an era of special-interest magazines and the 
shamanism wave has spawned one also, via some people 
connected with the University of California, Berkeley, an- 
thropology department. Shaman’s Drum, a quarterly on 
newsstands everywhere, bills itself as A Journal of Expe- 
riential Shamanism. One of its major advisors is Michael 
Harner, an anthropologist who got tired of being on the 
outside and started teaching shamanism as a practical art, 
noting rightly that “in our society there hasn’t been the 
opportunity for long-term intensive training in shaman- 
ism." ® Shaman’s Drum mixes serious researchers with the 
occasional wide-eyed seeker, at times producing some un- 
intentional humor. A would-be shaman who goes to visit 
Birth of a Modern Shaman 
Tayja Wiger—abused as a child, alcoholic, epileptic, dyslexic, 
mentally ill, legally blind, and suicidal—was transformed in a 
spiritualist ceremony in 1984. Healed of her hysterical 
blindness, she now uses her multiple-personality disorder to 
channel messages from “spirit guides.” Birth of a Modern 
Shaman explains Tayja’s metamorphosis in terms of spirit 
entities, astrology, psychic development, reincarnation, and 
the Bible. 
But whether you accept this interpretation or 
choose to view Tayja’s path to mental health in a more psy- 
chological context, her story—unlike those of armchair sha- 
mans like Lynn Andrews—is a genuine example of the trans- 
cultural archetype of the “wounded healer,” who converts 
severe personal hardship into a force for healing others. 
—T.S. 
° 
The next part of the workshop consisted of Tayja giving 
us a healing 
. 
.. When my turn came, | stood in front of her. 
My eyes were closed so | could not see what she was doing. 
At one point, | became aware of her voice saying: “Let it go, 
let it out.” 
| Suddenly started to cry. The pain in my stom- 
ach left me completely and | felt as if a big load was taken 
off my shoulders. | felt free. There was a physical drawing 
Out that took place and a definite release of fear and anxiety. 
ttt 
eseeet OE 
Birth of a Modern Shaman 
com 
Cynthia Bend and Tayja Wiger 
i 
1988; 246 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) from: 
Llewellyn Publications 
P.O. Box 64383-881 
St. Paul, MN 55164-0383 
800/843-6666 
the Peruvian curandero (healer) Don Eduardo Calderon 
reports, “The next day I heard that during the ritual, don 
Eduardo had been hit by some dark, confounding force. 
He experienced sharp pains in his chest and down his left 
arm during this episode. A woman healer . 
. 
. came to his 
aid, standing behind him to shield and heal him at the 
same time.’” 
Evidently it did not occur to her that the shaman, who 
looks to be a fat man in his forties, might have been hav- 
ing a heart attack. Psychic attack by “dark forces” is cer- 
tainly more exotic. 
If Shaman’s Drum’s rapid growth and loyal readers 
are the way things are going, North America is indeed 
seeing a renaissance of eclectic shamanistic healers. The 
question is, who will trust these “neoshamans” to heal 
them? And will the ‘“neoshamans” dare to try? If they are 
guided by the practitioners of magical autobiography, they 
may have some surprises coming in the regular kitchen- 
table world, where rows of priestesses with torches do not 
march across Mayan pyramids, and not everyone can or 
will pay $150 per hour for “crystal healing.” 
' 
8Jane English. “An Interview with Michael Harner.” Shaman’s 
Drum, Summer 1985, p. 15. Available from Shaman’s Drum, P.O. 
Box 2636-G, Berkeley, CA 94702. 
°Debra Carroll. “Dancing on the Sword’s Edge.” Shaman’s Drum, 
Fall 1985, p. 29. 
49 
