HE COELACANTH, A LARGE PREHISTORIC FISH 
known previously only from sixty-five-million-year-old 
fossils, was discovered alive off the coast of South 
Africa in 1939. The African okapi, a “living fossil” 
in the giraffe family, was identified in 1906. Known only 
from native legends, the mountain gorilla was not proven 
real until 1903. Cryptozoologists, the incurable romantics 
of natural science, point to these and other facts to bolster 
their premise that large, unclassified animals still exist, 
known only from folklore and occasional sightings. 
The term “cryptozoology” (the science of hidden ani- 
mals) was coined by the Belgian zoologist Bernard Heuvel- 
mans, whose On the Track of Unknown Animals, written in 
1955, is still the textbook on the subject. Heuvelmans 
has spent a lifetime collecting reports of unknown animals, 
and his book is an encyclopedia of the mysterious fauna of 
land and sea. Many of the animals he describes are 
known from fossils, like New Zealand’s moa (a ten-foot-tall, 
ostrich-like bird), the Patagonian giant sloth, or African di- 
nosaurs. 
Others are creatures unknown to science that 
have been reported by natives and travelers, like the east 
African Nandi bear, the Sumatran orang pendek (the “little 
man,” an unknown primate), or the Australian bunyip. Heu- 
velmans’ other seminal text, In the Wake of the Sea Ser- 
pents, provides the most thorough overview written on the 
surprises that may still await students of marine life. 
The most recent American edition of On the Track of 
Unknown Animals was published by MIT Press in 1972, 
and unfortunately it’s long out of print. The good news is 
there’s a newer book that, though not nearly as exhaus- 
tive, provides the same kind of excitement: Searching for 
Hidden Animals by Roy P. Mackal, a University of Chicago 
biochemist. 
Mackal, who unashamedly admits to a roman- 
ticism “accompanied by a reasoned and balanced credu- 
lity,” provides a wealth of evidence for unknown sea crea- 
tures (including some that may be prehistoric whales called 
zeuglodons), monstrous Caribbean octopuses, giant Hima- 
layan lizards, living trilobites, and dinosaurs in Africa. 
It is 
this last example that has made Mackal semi-famous, for 
he has conducted three expeditions to the Likouala region 
of the People’s Republic of the Congo to investigate tanta- 
lizing reports of a small, brontosaurus-like creature called 
by the natives Mokele-mbembe. The account of his adven- 
tures in this remote area are recorded in his book A Living 
Dinosaur? Mackal never saw a Mokele-mbembe, but he 
collected numerous native accounts of the creature, ob- 
served purported Mokele-mbembe trails through the 
swamps, collected examples of the malombo fruit on which 
it supposedly feeds, and encountered something large and 
animate that submerged quickly as his boat rounded a 
bend in the river. 
Both Mackal and Heuvelmans are officers in the Inter- 
national Society of Cryptozoology, an organization dedicated 
to the investigation of “all matters related to animals of un- 
expected form or size, or unexpected occurrence in time or 
space.” The ISC’s board is, in fact, made up of Ph.D. bi- 
ologists firmly entrenched in academic institutions around 
the world, so it’s hard to dismiss them as crackpots when 
On the Track of 
Unknown Animals 
In the Wake of the 
Sea Serpents 
Searching for 
Hidden Animals 
A Living Dinosaur? 
In Search of Mokele- 
International Society 
of Cryptozoology 
Bernard Heuvelmans 
Bernard Heuvelmans 
Roy P. Mackal 
Neel S 
Bernard Heuvelmans, Pres. 
1958; 558 pp. 
1968; 645 pp. 
1980; 320 pp. 
nb 
lhe 
bese Se 
25/yearly membershi 
OUT OF PRINT 
OUT OF PRINT 
$39.95 
1987; 340 pp: 
7a eee issues eat 
Hill and Wang 
Hill and Wang 
postpaid from: 
$24.95 
; 
one journal volume) from: 
New York, NY 
New York, NY 
State Mutual Books 
($27.45 postpaid) 
International Society of 
1972; 306 pp. (abridged) 
521 Fifth Ave. 
from: 
Cryptozoology 
OUT OF PRINT 
New York, NY 10017 
E.J. Brill 
P.O. Box 43070 
MIT Press 
1780 Broadway 
Tucson, AZ 85733 
Cambridge, MA 
Suite 1004 
116 
New York, NY 10019 
212/757-7628 
he . 
Monste 
a
