SPONTANEOUS HUMAN COMBUSTION 
> 
An Explanation? 
by Joe Nickell 
Dr. J. Irving Bentley, a retired 
physician, lived on the ground floor 
of an apartment in Coudersport, in 
northern Pennsylvania. On the morn- 
ing of December 5, 1966, Don 
Gosnell entered the building’s base- 
ment to read the meter for the 
North Penn Gas Company and 
noticed “a light-blue smoke of 
unusual odor.” Going upstairs he 
found more strange smoke in Bent- 
ley’s bedroom, but no sign of Bent- 
ley. Peering into the bathroom he 
discovered a large hole burned 
through the fioor to the basement, 
exposing the pipework below. On 
the edge of the hole he saw “a 
brown leg from the knee down, like 
that of a mannequin” and then fled. 
(Photo: The Mysterious World) 
Joe Nickell, who’s worked as both a 
Stage magician and private investigator, 
currently teaches technical writing at the 
University of Kentucky. He’s written for 
a variety of publications, specializing in 
strange and unsolved mysteries. His 
books, Inquest on the Shroud of Turin 
and Secrets of the Supernatural, are 
available from Prometheus Press (see p. 
202). 
—T.S. 
es 
ntrigued by the gruesome mystery of 
‘spontaneous human combustion” 
(SHC), forensic analyst John F. Fis- 
cher and I conducted a two-year inves- 
tigation, comprising 30 historic cases. Our 
findings (published in the journal of the In- 
ternational Association of Arson Investiga- 
tors') consistently yielded credible prosaic 
explanations. 
For example, a 1731 immolation was 
clarified by a detail from an early account: 
on the floor had been discovered an empty, 
ash-covered lamp. The 62-year-old woman 
had apparently fallen on it, the burning oil 
causing her destruction. 
Similar ignition sources were found in 
nineteenth-century cases: a knocked-over 
candlestick near one victim’s remains, a 
lighted pipe under the body of another, a 
hearth across which lay the smoldering 
corpse of a drunken woman. 
Twentieth-century cases included the 
1966 death of J. Irving Bentley, a 92-year- 
old pipe-smoking physician who habitually 
dropped ashes on his clothes. The fact that 
Dr. Bentley had shed his robe, discovered 
charred in the bathtub, demonstrated an ex- 
ternal rather than internal source for the ig- 
nition. 
What has become known as the case of 
alleged SHC, the 1951 death of Mary Rees- 
er, was particularly instructive. Mrs. 
Reeser’s body had been reduced to little 
more than ashes, a slippered foot, and—re- 
portedly—an eerie, shrunken skull. Yet de- 
struction of her surroundings was minimal. 
Our investigation of the case included 
obtaining original news accounts, the po- 
lice report, and death certificate, and con- 
sulting experts in smoldering combustion 
and forensic anthropology. The result was 
an obvious solution to the mystery. 
When last seen, Mrs. Reeser was wear- 
ing flammable nightclothes, sitting in the 
overstuffed chair in which she perished, 
and smoking a cigarette. She had taken at 
least two sleeping tablets. Mrs. Reeser was 
a “plump” woman and, once her dropped 
cigarette started the fire, her own body fat 
would doubtless aid the destruction (as did 
partially open windows). In fact, “grease” 
was discovered where the chair had stood. 
(By what is known in forensic literature as 
the “candle effect,” some of the melted fat 
could have been absorbed by the chair’s 
stuffing, thus augmenting the fire which 
destroyed more of the body and yielded 
still more fat.) 
80 
SHC proponents wrongly compare the 
destruction of Mrs. Reeser’s body to that 
produced by a crematorium. According to 
one expert, “Cremation is intended to de- 
stroy a body in the shortest possible time 
and is therefore carried out under extreme 
conditions, but a relatively small fire can 
consume flesh and calcine bone if it is al- 
lowed to burn for a long time.” In the 
Reeser case nearly 12 hours had elapsed 
from the time the widow was last seen un- 
til her remains were discovered. (Such a 
lengthy period was typical of the cases of 
extensive destruction that we researched.) 
Our investigation also clarified other 
elements in the case. The “shrunken skull” 
was actually unsubstantiated and traceable 
to an impressionable reporter’s story, and 
Mrs. Reeser’s intact foot was explained by 
a stiff leg which she extended when sit- 
ting. Her apartment went relatively un- 
scathed because firemen extinguished a 
burning beam and because the walls and 
floor were concrete. 
While this example illustrated the need 
for case-by-case investigation, we were 
nevertheless able to make some generali- 
zations from our study. There did seem, as 
proponents suggested, some correlation 
with drunkenness. However, a person 
would die of alcohol poisoning long be- 
fore consuming enough liquor to have 
even a Slight effect on the body’s combus- 
tibility. Instead, we attributed the correla- 
tion to heavy drinkers’ carelessness with 
fire and diminished capacity to properly 
respond to an accident. 
An even more important correlation 
concerned the amount of destruction of the 
body. In instances in which that was rela- 
tively minimal, the victim’s clothes 
seemed to represent the only significant 
fuel source. But where the destruction was 
considerable, additional fuel—chair stuff- 
ing, flooring, and the like—was typically 
involved. (Such materials beneath the 
body would also have helped retain melted 
fat to facilitate the “candle effect.”’) 
Our overall conclusion was that while 
unusual burning deaths certainly occur, 
special circumstances are invariably in- 
volved and we found no evidence for the 
existence of “spontaneous human combus- 
tion.” 
eS 
Spontaneous Human Combustion” by Joe 
Nickell and John F. Fischer, The Fire and Ar- 
son Investigator, March 1984 (Part I) and June 
1984 (Part II). 
