Harry 
S. 
Robins 
Not “little green men,” though that didn’t deter the 
press, which soon had a new phrase with which to amuse 
readers at the expense of silly saucer buffs. But there 
was, alas, no getting around the reports. Whether or not 
little men existed, people who seemed sincere and sane 
were reporting them. Even the Air Force’s Project Blue 
Book, not known for pro-UFO sympathies, was finding, 
on those rare occasions that it investigated such reports, 
that they were, uh, puzzling—even the wild ones like that 
alleged to have occurred near Kelly, Kentucky, on August 
22, 1955, when (so the story went) members of a hillbilly 
family fired on loping, big-eared humanoids as they 
dashed in and out of sight. 
APRO and CSI came to take the “humanoid” reports 
seriously, seeing no intrinsic reason not to, but NICAP 
would have nothing to do with them, for reasons having 
less to do with the quality of the evidence (neither better 
nor worse than the evidence for many less exotic reports) 
than with the organization’s desire to maintain a 
nonthreatening image to professionals who might be at- 
tracted to UFO study. 
Finally, however, an April 24, 1964, report by police 
officer Lonnie Zamora of two small figures and a landed 
UFO near Socorro, New Mexico, ended the humanoid 
controversy within ufology. Even the Air Force acknowI- 
edged that the witness was entirely credible and listed the 
case among the few it was willing to admit, albeit grudg- 
ingly, that it could not explain. 
Then that same year, when Boston psychiatrist Ben- 
jamin Simon hypnotized a New Hampshire couple, Bar- 
ney and Betty Hill, who were suffering anxiety problems 
which they believed were related to a UFO sighting 
they’d had three years earlier, a whole new aspect of the 
humanoid phenomenon came to ufologists’ sometimes-re- 
luctant attention: “missing time,” amnesia, and later “rec- 
ollection” (mostly but not always by hypnosis) of an ab- 
duction and physical examination by ostensible extrater- 
restrials. 
A new UFO controversy had begun. 
If the Hill story were the only one of its kind (as it ap- 
peared to be initially), it would have meant little. It could 
have even been “‘accounted for”—if one were not too in- 
sistent on cleaning up every loose end (such as marks on 
the Hills’ bodies and on their car)—as a psychological 
episode. But in the years ahead, many similar reports 
would come to light. 
156 
In 1987 (and again in 1988, with the appearance of the 
paperback edition), Whitley Strieber’s Communion, a non- 
fiction treatment of the author’s apparent abduction expe- 
riences, would top best-seller lists and make “UFO abduc- 
tion” a staple of popular culture. Strieber’s wildly subjec- 
tive account, however, never makes clear where a possible 
“real” event ends and the author’s imagination picks up. 
A clearer picture of the abduction phenomenon emerges 
in two books, Missing Time (1981) and Intruders (1987) 
by Budd Hopkins, a New York artist-sculptor who has 
worked with psychiatrists, psychologists, and physicians 
in the investigation of these reports. (See reviews, next 
page.) 
< 
Hopkins found numerous patterns in the reports and 
concluded that the experiences were just what they 
seemed: kidnappings by aliens. The mental-health pro- 
fessionals with whom he worked wouldn’t go that far, but 
they did acknowledge that, contrary to what their col- 
leagues were declaring from the safety of armchairs, these 
did not appear to be purely psychological experiences. 
For example, when abductees were subjected to a series 
of tests by three New York psychologists, they were found 
to be “normal.” Beyond that, they had one unusual trait 
in common: an “impaired identity sense,” much like that 
associated with victims of personal assault. “The test 
findings,” wrote Dr. Elizabeth Slate, who had admini- 
stered the tests blind and only later learned she was deal- 
ing with people who claimed to have been abducted by 
UFOs (she was “flabbergasted,” she says), “are not incon- 
sistent with the possibility that reported UFO abductions 
have, in fact, occurred.” 
In 1987 Dr. Thomas E. Bullard, a folklorist with a pro- 
fessional interest in UFO beliefs, studied all abduction re- 
ports in the literature and found numerous patterns, some 
of which not even investigators had noticed (one being 
what Bullard called “doorway amnesia”: the abductees’ 
consistent inability to recall passing through the door of 
the UFO). He also found that consciously recalled abduc- 
tion stories comprised fully one-third of the total, and 
these were identical in every regard to those reported un- 
der hypnosis. This seemed to lay to rest the frequently- 
heard debunking argument that “abductions,” like “past- 
life recall,” are artifacts of hypnosis, the product of cueing 
and confabulation. 
By the late 1980s many American ufologists—and 
virtually all mental-health specialists who had involved 
themselves in direct investigation of the reports—were 
taking seriously (if not necessarily endorsing) the hy- 
pothesis that abductions are physical experiences. Euro- 
pean ufologists, on the other hand, were seeking hypo- 
thetical psychological mechanisms and drawing on 
Jungian and other speculations to come up with a “dream 
theory” of abductions. 
At this stage there is little question that the abduction 
phenomenon—whatever causes it—is a reality. Increas- 
ingly sophisticated investigation of it by ufologists, work- 
ing with growing numbers of scientists and psychologists 
fascinated by it, should eventually tell us just what that 
“reality” consists of. 
os 
;:
l
