Re 
ae 
The Occult Underground ana 
The Occult Establishment 
Most histories of the occult are hopelessly partisan and 
untrustworthy. James Webb’s two volumes come the closest 
to objective history that the subject has ever seen. 
In The Oc- 
cult Underground, Webb takes on the occult explosion of the 
nineteenth century when, by his interpretation, a backlash oc- 
curred against the rationalist paradigm of the Enlightenment. 
This reaction radiated out from the Hydesville, New York, cot- 
tage of the Fox sisters, founders of Spiritualism, through the 
Parliament of Religions at the 1893 Columbian Exposition in 
Chicago, the founding of Theosophy, the rise of Mormonism 
and Christian Science, the influences of the Rosicrucians and 
Utopians, and on into the twentieth century. 
The Occult Establishment takes up where its predecessor 
leaves off, outlining the progress of twentieth-century occult- 
ism. 
It covers the further adventures of Theosophists, Anthro- 
posophists, health cults, and Westernized Eastern doctrines. 
Webb reveals how diverse elements of occultism, including a 
tendency toward political conspiracy theories, found their way 
into the “establishment” doctrines of Nazi Germany. 
He 
brings his account right up into the 1960s and the psyche- 
delic revolution. 
Both books are examples of excellent schol- 
arship, crammed with meticulously researched facts. 
You 
won't find this fascinating story told so thoroughly anywhere 
else. 
—T.S. 
e 
Anna Kingsford herself was sufficiently convinced of the 
justice of her cause [anti-vivisection] to commit murder for its 
sake. 
By a simple curse she was convinced that she had 
killed Professor Claude Bernard, who was conducting experi- 
ments on the heat tolerance of animals which included baking 
them to death. This was not enough. 
In the summer of 1886 
she agreed to a proposal to study what Maitland refers to as 
“occultism,” but is obviously practical magic. Her tutor was “a 
notable expert, well-versed in Hermetic and Kabalistic sci- 
ence.” 
This was almost certainly MacGregor Mathers of the 
Golden Dawn. Anna Kingsford proposed to use the power to 
kill more vivisectors. 
Her first attempt was directed against Louis Pasteur. 
It 
exhausted her, but she was soon restored to spirits by hear- 
ing that Pasteur had been struck by a dangerous illness, and 
that the mortality rate among his patients had greatly in- 
creased. 
Whilst visiting H.P.B. [Madame Helena P. Blavatsky] 
at Ostend, she took chloroform, and was enabled to see that 
The Occult 
Underground 
James Webb 
1974; 387 pp. 
$18.95 
($20.70 postpaid) 
Both from: 
The Occult 
Open Court 
Establishment 
Attn: Order 
James Webb 
Dept. 
1976; 535 pp. 
P.O. Box 599 
$9.95 
Peru, IL 
($11.70 postpaid) 
61354 
her “projections” were not only successful, but perfectly justi- 
fied. 
H.P.B. and other Theosophists remonstrated with her, 
but to no avail. Anna Kingsford tried again, choosing as her 
target a professor Paul Bert. 
Paul Bert died. The following di- 
ary entry is frighteningly indicative of its writer’s state of mind: 
“Yesterday, November 11th at eleven at night, | knew that 
my will had smitten another vivisector! 
Ah, but this man has 
cost me more toil than his master, the fiend Claude Bernard 
... The will can and does kill, but not always with the same 
rapidity .. 
. | have killed Paul Bert, as | killed Claude Bernard; 
as | will kill Louis Pasteur and after him the whole tribe of vivi- 
sectors, if | live long enough. Courage: 
it is a magnificent 
power to have, and one that transcends all vulgar methods of 
dealing out justice to tyrants.” 
—The Occult Underground 
e 
The chief uses [Rudolf] Steiner made of his [clairvoyant] 
faculty were enunciating moral doctrine, describing the struc- 
ture of the universe, and elucidating the history of man. 
Hu- 
man history could be surveyed as far distantly as the seer 
might wish—because of its impress on the “Akashic Record.” 
This mysterious and convenient chronicle is a legacy from Ma- 
dame Blavatsky; and like her, Steiner made great play with the 
doings of man on the lost continents of Atlantis and Lemuria. 
In Atlantis, for example, the inhabitants had thought in pic- 
tures, possessed extraordinary memories, and used the en- 
ergy latent in plants to drive airships. The most evolved 
among them were gathered together by a great leader in Cen- 
tral Asia and subjected to a refining process with the object of 
making them understand the divine powers. 
From this group 
were descended the early priest-kings of the Aryans. 
—The Occult Establishment 
next seven years, H.P.B. spent most of her time in India, 
establishing and then presiding at the T.S. world head- 
quarters in Adyar. While there, H.P.B.’s contacts with the 
Masters continued, as did a variety of psychic phenomena 
including the sounds of astral bells and materialized let- 
ters and flowers. These manifestations culminated in an 
investigation by the British Society for Psychical Re- 
search, which concluded that at least some of the phenom- 
ena were produced fraudulently. The S.P.R.’s star wit- 
nesses were Mr. & Mrs.-Coulomb, the former handyman 
and housekeeper of the Adyar estate, who alleged that 
they had connived with H.P.B. to produce various psychic 
marvels. An enormous stink was raised in India, much to 
the T.S.’s embarrassment. Shortly thereafter, in 1885, 
H.P.B. and Olcott departed India for good and regrouped 
their forces in England, though Adyar would remain the 
official headquarters of the T.S. 
Another scandal accompanied the publication of 
H.P.B.’s two masterworks. These gargantuan volumes, 
which were said to have been dictated by the Masters, 
24 
succumbed to textual analysis by a spiritualist critic, Wil- 
liam E. Coleman. His study of /sis Unveiled (1877) re- 
vealed that over two thousand passages were lifted intact 
from other books without credit. Similar charges were 
leveled against The Secret Doctrine (1888), which was 
said to derive primarily from just three other books.’ 
The final years of H.P.B.’s life were marred by her 
poor health and power struggles with Col. Olcott for con- 
trol of the T.S. While Madame Blavatsky had the cha- 
risma, the good Colonel had the administrative abilities, 
' Coleman recorded his painstaking analyses in “The Unveiling 
of ‘Isis Unveiled’: A Literary Revelation” in Golden Way 1:2-8; 
Blavatsky Unveiled (London, 1891?); and Plagiarism in Theo- 
sophical Teachings (Bombay, no date). According to Coleman, 
Blavatsky plagiarized extensively from about a hundred books 
to write /sis Unveiled, chief among them Ennemoser’s History of 
Magic, Dunlap’s Sod: Son of Man, and Demonologia. The pri- 
mary sources for The Secret Doctrine were H.H. Wilson’s trans- 
lation of the Vishnu Purana, Alexander Winchell’s World Life or, 
Comparative Geology, and Dowson’s Hindu Classical Diction- 
ary. Ignatius Donnelly’s Atlantis also served as a source. 
