ter the recovery. It was subsequently secretly shipped to 
Wright Field (later Wright-Patterson AFB), and that was 
the last anyone ever heard of it. 
Until, perhaps, September 15, 1950, when physicist 
Robert Sarbacher, a member of the U.S. Defense 
Department’s Research and Development Board (RDB), 
told Canadian government scientists—who had asked him 
if there was anything to those rumors of crashed flying 
saucers—that yes, there was, and that the investigation of 
same was being conducted by a small group under the di- 
rection of Dr. Vannevar Bush, head of the RDB and Presi- 
dent Truman’s chief science adviser. Sarbacher (who died 
in 1986) repeated the story three decades later when in- 
vestigators found him living in Florida retirement, after 
the Canadian government account was found in official 
archives. Sarbacher, who had not been directly involved 
in the project, recalled having been told that the UFO ma- 
terials were “extremely light and very tough.” There were 
bodies, too, of beings which, despite their humanoid ap- 
pearance, were “constructed like certain insects.” 
In the early 1970s, southern California filmmaker 
Robert Emenegger says he was approached by military 
officers who asked him to prepare a documentary film 
that would reveal what had been covered up: not only ex- 
traterrestrial visitation but high-level contact with the ali- 
ens. The project fell through, but a decade later military 
intelligence personnel reportedly approached ufologist 
Bill Moore, television producer Jaime Shandera, and an- 
other documentary filmmaker, Linda Howe, with identical 
stories about the U.S. government’s dealings with “extra- 
terrestrial biological entities” (EBEs—pronounced EE- 
buhs). Shandera was even given a document, allegedly a 
November 18, 1952, briefing paper prepared for Presi- 
dent-elect Eisenhower by onetime CIA director. Admiral 
R.H. Hillenkoetter, detailing the conclusions of an ultrase- 
cret group, “Majestic-12,” headed by Vannevar Bush. 
The “MJ-12 document,” as it came to be called, caused a 
flurry of media interest, even a Nightline segment, in mid- 
1987 but no follow-up investigations by journalists. 
Can all this be? Who knows? So far, the MJ-12 
document has not been successfully debunked (despite 
some frantic efforts by veteran UFOphobe Philip J. Klass 
in CSICOP’s Skeptical Inquirer [see page 198]), and sev- 
eral retired military and intelligence people have since as- 
serted that such a group does exist. And in the spring of 
1988 linguist-document examiner Roger Wescott of Drew 
University, after studying the memo and comparing it to 
materials known to have been written by Hillenkoetter, 
declared that Hillenkoetter was indeed the author. 
Either belief or disbelief is premature at the moment, 
but that hasn’t stopped speculation among those puzzled 
by all this but unable to stomach the idea of an Ultimate 
Secret. They speculate—though, they acknowledge, with- 
out supporting evidence—that these disclosures are part 
of an enormous conspiracy to disinform the KGB. Such 
an effort, however, could only induce massive paranoia 
among the intended recipients and probably sabotage 
arms-control agreements. What nation, after all, would 
want to disarm if it thought its adversary had access to ET 
technology? 
154 
UFO 
FOLKLORE 
THE 
MEN 
iN 
BLACK 
by Dennis Stacy 
phantom intimidators; so is ufology, with its 
tales of mysterious men in black (MIB). Such 
stories date back to at least 1953, when Bridge- 
port, Connecticut, factory clerk Albert K. Bender, 
founder and director of the International Flying 
Saucer Bureau, claimed he had been visited by 
three men dressed in black suits. 
According to Bender, the MIB not only re- 
vealed the secret of flying saucers, but they also 
intimated he’d end up in jail if he told anyone else. 
Suitably impressed, Bender folded his burgeoning 
bureau and headed off to Los Angeles. And in the 
last issue of the group’s newsletter, Space Review, 
he cryptically warned “those engaged in saucer 
work to please be very cautious.” 
Bender may well have been an eccentric, but 
his case was hardly unique. Many UFO investiga- 
tors claim that MIB plague them to this day. “The 
curious thing,” says Peter Rojcewicz, a folklorist 
who has studied the phenomenon, “is that MIB 
sometimes show up before the witness has had a 
chance to report a UFO sighting. They often have 
intimate information about the percipient that only 
he or a family member would normally have ac- 
cess to. And they customarily identify themselves 
as military-intelligence officers.” 
Rojcewicz, now an assistant professor of hu- 
manities at The Juilliard School in New York, first 
became fascinated by MIB stories and the people 
who told them in the early eighties while research- 
ing a doctoral thesis on UFO folklore at the Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania. His studies revealed a se- 
ries of bizarre, if contradictory, patterns. 
“Ninety-nine percent of the MIB are men,” 
S 
UPERNATURAL LORE IS FULL OF 
