Access to Cults 
The golden age of encyclopedists wrestling the world’s knowl- 
edge into book form is usually associated with eighteenth-century 
Frenchmen like Diderot or Voltaire. 
However, in the specialized 
universe of religious research, such a golden age may still be with 
us. 
Certainly, J. Gordon Melton’s efforts to track down and de- 
scribe every religious group in modern America (ranging from ma- 
jor denominations down to eccentric grouplets) stands out as an 
unparalleled undertaking, and the results have been outstanding. 
Every public library should have a copy of Melton’s Encyclo- 
pedia of American Religions. 
Herein one finds succinct summa- 
ries of the distinguishing doctrines and histories of over 1,500 re- 
ligions ranging from the Holy Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox 
Church in Exile to the Fire Baptized Holiness Church (Wesleyan), 
from the Urantia-Foundation to the Lectorium Rosicrucianum, and 
from the Vedanta Society to a dozen Shinto sects. 
Melton’s de- 
scriptions are generally accurate and evenhanded—an all-too-rare 
occurrence in books purporting to describe a variety of faiths. 
Less sweeping in scope, but similarly useful, are Melton’s 
Biographical Dictionary of American Cult and Sect Leaders and 
his Encyclopedic Handbook of Cults in America. 
The Biographi- 
cal Dictionary’s strength is its inclusion of spiritual leaders lo- 
cated abroad, such as Ramakrishna or Meher Baba, as long as 
their followers have had organizations in the U.S. 
The book’s big- 
gest drawback is Melton’s decision to only include people who 
died prior to January 1, 1983. 
Thus L. Ron Hubbard, Rev. Moon, 
and Rajneesh, to name a few, are regrettably missing. As with 
the Encyclopedia, the information here is accurate and makes for 
fascinating reading. 
It is easy to dive into these books to look up 
one group or leader and end up reading a half-dozen adjoining 
write-ups out of sheer fascination. 
The Encyclopedic Handbook zeroes in on about two dozen of 
the most prominent alternative religions and treats them in more 
depth, including descriptions of the controversies that have 
swirled around most of them. Also present are descriptions of 
“counter-cult groups” and a discussion of the mixed meanings of 
the term “cult” itself. A valuable, balanced book. 
—Jay Kinney 
e 
DIVINE LIGHT MISSION. 
Few new religious movements have 
grown and spread as quickly as the Divine Light Mission did dur- 
ing its early months in the United States. 
Beginning in 1971, it 
had, by 1973, more than 40 centers in North American and was 
publishing both a monthly publication, And It is Divine, and a 
tabloid, The Divine Times. The mission was centered upon the 
then teenage guru Maharaj Ji (b. 1957) who assumed leadership 
in 1966 at the time of the death of his father, Shri Hans Ji Ma- 
haraj... 
Shri Hans was considered a satguru, or perfect master, by 
his followers. 
His death was considered a great loss; however, at 
his funeral, in the midst of the mourning crowd, one of Sri Hans' 
four sons, Prem Pal Singh Rawat, then only eight years old, arose 
and addressed the crowd, “O You have been illusioned by maya 
(the delusion that suffering is real). Maharaj Ji [i.e., Shri Hans] is 
here, very much present amidst you. Recognize him, adore him 
and obey him.” Thus Maharaj Ji proclaimed his lordship and es- 
tablished himself as the new head of his father’s mission. 
Maharaj Ji had been an unusual child who began meditating 
at age two and giving discourses at age six. He entered his teen 
years with a curious mixture of “normal” childhood urges and the 
meditative life of a satguru. 
Four years later, on November 8, 
1970, at the India Gate in Delhi, Maharaj Ji proclaimed the dawn 
of a new era, and his followers answered his call to mission. 
Early in 1971, Maharaj Ji made his first tour of the United States, 
mixing visits to Disneyland and horror movies with sessions with 
prospective disciples. A second visit was made to a huge meet- 
ing of disciples at Montrose, Colorado, in the summer of 1972. 
Each trip was accompanied by wide advertisement and mass me- 
dia coverage. 
Following Sant Mat tradition, Maharaj Ji is considered a per- 
fect master and, as such, an embodiment of God. He gives initia- 
tion (called the giving of knowledge) into the truth of life. Initia- 
tion involves instruction in the four yoga techniques taught to Shri 
Hans by his guru. They are taught to a premie (follower of the 
guru) by a mahatma (personal representative of the guru). The 
first involves placing the knuckles on the eyes, a process which 
produces flashes of light in the head (by pinching the optic nerve). 
The second involves the plugging of the ears and concentrating 
only on internal sounds. The third involves a concentration on the 
sound of one’s own breathing. 
Finally, the “nectar” is a tech- 
nique in which the tongue is curled backward against the roof of 
the mouth. These techniques are practiced daily by premies (lov- 
ers of god). Regular daily practice of these techniques allows the 
premie to become attuned to the sound and light current emanat- 
ing from the Divine. 
In the early 1970s, the Mission suffered greatly from its “Mil- 
lennium 73” program which proved unable to attract enough 
people to fill (and pay for) the Houston Astrodome. 
This disaster 
was followed by internal dissent within Maharaj Ji’s family. A 
month after the Houston event, Maharaj Ji turned 16. He took 
personal administrative control of the mission. Then in May 
1974, he married his 24-year old secretary. 
His mother, Mataji, 
reacted by taking control of the mission in India and declaring an 
older brother in control. A lawsuit gave Maharaj Ji control of the 
movement outside of India while the family retained control of the 
large Indian following. The publicity attendant upon the internal 
problems, concurrent with attacks by anti-cultists in the United 
States, led the mission to adopt a low profile. Maharaj Ji ceased 
to make public appearances and announcements of activities 
were not made outside of the membership. 
In the late 1970s 
both the headquarters of the movement in Denver and Maharaj 
Ji’s residence in Malibu were transferred to Miami, Florida. 
Re- 
cently, Maharaj Ji returned to California. 
—Encyclopedia of American Religions 
e 
THE NUDIST CHRISTIAN CHURCH OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN 
JESUS. The Nudist Christian Church of the Blessed Virgin Jesus 
grew out of a revelation received by the church’s founder, Zeus 
Cosmos. 
During 1985, while a student at lowa State University, 
he asked direction from God. The Spirit of Jesus Christ was sent 
to Zeus Cosmos, directing him to the West, where he would meet 
God. He journeyed to the Canaan Wilderness (which he renamed 
the Zeus Cosmos Nudist National Wilderness) near the Utah-Ari- 
zona border. God and the angel Ephygeneia, both naked, ap- 
peared to him, directing him to a cave on a nearby ridge. While 
engaged in a fast and living in a cave, Zeus Cosmos again met 
“God the Almighty the Triune God” and an angel. God gave him 
an additional revelation to be added to the Bible, called the Book 
of Zeus. 
\t was to be placed next to the Book of Revelation. 
The Book of Zeus begins with an admonishment for the 
Mormon polygamists to give up their adulterous pagan practices 
and their beliefs in the inferiority of the black race. Zeus Cosmos 
was told of the holy land of the Nudist Christian people northwest 
of the Grand Canyon where a city, Cosmos, would be built. Here 
men and women would have godly respect for each other, their 
nakedness, and the wholesome natural body. 
It is the belief of the church that the human body is God’s 
creation. 
Nudity means cleanliness, honesty, family atmosphere, 
modesty at its best, freedom, and goodliness. 
Life with nudity 
reduces sexual hang-ups, problems caused by undue expecta- 
tions of one’s body, pornography, and crime. The church actively 
seeks the establishment of clothes-optional public areas across 
the United States. 
—Encyclopedia of American Religions (Supplement) 
e 
KENNEDY WORSHIPPERS. 
Shortly after the death of the char- 
ismatic President John F. Kennedy, people began to claim contact 
with his spirit. They began ascribing healings of many serious 
diseases, some congenital and/or terminal, to that spirit. By 
1970 more than 100 such reports were on file. Coincidental with 
these accounts of miracles was the emergence of a loosely or- 
ganized movement in which John F. Kennedy was an object of 
worship. The first manifestations were home shrines centered 
