fully 69 weeks of years (483 Biblical years) were to pass 
before the Messiah appeared. (This works out to exactly 
173,880 days—483 years times 360 days per Biblical 
year.) And lo! “experts” have figured that this is exactly 
the duration of time that elapsed between the signing of 
the Persian decree in 444 B.c. and the day when Jesus of 
Nazareth publicly proclaimed himself to be the Messiah 
and heir to the throne of David. 
Christ was crucified five days later, an event foreseen 
by the prophets. What the prophets didn’t foresee, how- 
ever, was that the destruction of Jerusalem, supposed to 
follow hard on the heels of the Messiah’s being “‘cut off,” 
did not occur until 70 A.D.—over thirty years out of sync. 
What happened? Were the prophecies wrong? God 
forbid. Humanity was wrong. Israel had failed to accept 
Christ as the Messiah, so “God had stopped the prophetic 
stopwatch at the crucifixion seven years short of comple- 
tion.” With the stopwatch on hold, God turned to other 
pastimes during this intervening Cosmic Time-Out, for in- 
stance the formation of the Church. 
In recent years, the stopwatch is on the verge of tick- 
ing again. Certain historical events, such as the founda- 
° 
tion of the state of Israel, the unification of Jerusalem, and 
the founding of the European Economic Community, 
presage the imminent beginning of the final seven-year 
period left on the clock. We are heading to the final 
countdown to Armageddon with its beasts, disasters, an- 
gels—and salvation. 
Lindsey must have caught a mood in the country as he 
tiedprophecies in the Bible to events in the modern world. 
Nor are his sensational sales exactly a fluke in the pub- 
lishing business. George Vandeman, associated with the 
Seventh-Day Adventist Church, has sold seven million 
copies of his own books, including such titles as Show- 
down in the Middle East and The Cry of the Lonely 
Planet, which contain such chapters as “The Breath of Ar- 
mageddon” and “Toying with the Nick of Time.” 
Among the tens of millions of Americans preoccupied 
with the countdown to Armageddon are Ronald and 
Nancy Reagan. During his 1980 campaign Reagan, influ- 
enced by Hal Lindsey’s The Late Great Planet Earth, 
mentioned several times that “this may be the last genera- 
tion.” And in response to NBC’s Marvin Kalb’s question 
during the final 1984 presidential debate “Do you feel that 
we are now heading perhaps for some kind of nuclear 
Armageddon?” Reagan replied that he had indeed spoken 
with people about “the Biblical prophecies of what would 
portend the coming of Armageddon and so forth and the 
fact that a number of theologians for the last decade or 
more have believed that this was true—that the prophe- 
cies are coming together that portend that.” 
In April 1988 Nancy Reagan was reported to have 
changed the street number of the couple’s Bel Air gift- 
mansion from 666—the sign of the Beast in the Book of 
Revelation—to the far more innocuous 668. (Interest- 
ingly, Hal Lindsey never changed his publisher, Bantam, 
even though that publisher’s address is 666 Fifth Avenue 
in New York.) 
Reagan is a good example of this obsession for Arma- 
geddon not only because he held his finger over the but- 
The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, as envisioned by the German artist 
Albrecht Durer (1471-1528). 
ton that could have brought it about, but because he dem- 
onstrates how truly pervasive and deep-rooted this belief 
is in America today. 
It is clear that for the Reagans the 
book of Revelation is not an example of interesting litera- 
ture but a collection of facts—realities—to be realized. 
For several tens of millions of Americans, the End is in- 
deed nigh. 
MILLERITES AND MESSIAHS 
The current American interest in the End Times is 
nothing new. There have always been home-grown 
prophets of doom, the forerunners of Hal Lindsey and his 
ilk. After a two-year study of the Bible in 1818 and some 
fancy arithmetic, a New York farmer named William 
Miller came to the disturbing conclusion that the End of 
the World would occur in 1843. He kept the facts to him- 
self for five years, but at last disclosed the bad news to a 
few of his friends. For the next eight years he continued 
his public campaign and built up a small group of follow- 
ers. In 1839 Miller met Joshua V. Himes and convinced 
him of the veracity of his claims. Himes started a news- 
paper called Signs of the Times in Boston. As 1843 ap- 
proached, the Millerite following grew in an eschatologi- 
cal feeding frenzy. They began publishing The Midnight 
Cry in New York, followed soon after by Philadelphia 
Alarm. 
Opposition from other religious groups had little ef- 
11 
