Imo was a “monkey genius,” 
Watson tells us, and potato 
washing is “comparable to the 
invention of the wheel.” 
them with such foods as sweet potatoes and 
wheat. This kept the monkeys from raiding 
farms and also made them easier to observe. 
The food was left in open areas, often on 
beaches. As a result of this new economy, the 
monkeys developed several innovative forms of 
behavior. One of these was invented in 1953 by 
an 18-month-old female that the observers 
named “Imo.” Imo was a member of the 
troop on Koshima Island. She discovered that 
sand and grit could be removed from the sweet 
potatoes by washing them in a stream or in the 
ocean. Imo’s playmates and her mother learned 
this trick from Imo, and it soon spread to 
other members of the troop. Unlike most food 
customs, this innovation was learned by older 
monkeys from younger ones. In most other 
matters, the children learn from their parents. 
The potato-washing habit spread gradually, ac- 
cording to Watson, up until 1958. But in the 
fall of 1958 a remarkable event occurred on 
Koshima. This event formed the basis of the 
““Hundredth Monkey Phenomenon.” 
The Miracle on Koshima 
According to Watson, all of the juveniles on 
Koshima were washing their potatoes by early 
1958, but the only adult washers were those 
who had learned from the children. In the fall 
of that year something astounding happened. 
The exact nature of the event is unclear. 
Watson says: 
One has to gather the rest of the story from 
personal anecdotes and bits of folklore among 
primate researchers, because most of them are 
still not quite sure what happened. And those 
who do suspect the truth are reluctant to publish 
it for fear of ridicule. So I am forced to improvise 
the details, but as near as I can tell, this is what 
seems to have happened. In the autumn of that 
year an unspecified number of monkeys on Ko- 
shima were washing sweet potatoes in the sea... 
. 
Let us say, for argument’s sake, that the number 
was ninety-nine and that at eleven o’clock on a 
Tuesday morning, one further convert was added 
to the fold in the usual way. But the addition of 
the hundredth monkey apparently carried the 
number across some sort of threshold, pushing it 
176 
through a kind of critical mass, because by that 
evening almost everyone was doing it. Not only 
that, but the habit seems to have jumped natural 
barriers and to have appeared spontaneously, like 
glycerine crystals in sealed laboratory jars, in col- 
onies on other islands and on the mainland in a 
troop at Takasakiyama. 
A sort of group consciousness had developed 
among the monkeys, Watson tells us. It had 
developed suddenly, as a result of one last 
monkey’s learning potato washing by conven- 
tional means. The sudden learning of the rest 
of the Koshima troop was not attributable to 
the normal one-monkey-at-a-time methods of 
previous years. The new phenomenon of group 
consciousness was responsible not only for the 
sudden learning on Koshima but for the equally 
sudden acquisition of the habit by monkeys 
across the sea. Watson admits that he was forced 
to “improvise” some of the details — the time 
of the day, the day of the week, and the exact 
number of monkeys required for the “critical 
mass” were not specified in the scientific litera- 
ture. But by evening (or at least in a very short 
period of time) almost everyone (or at least a 
large number of the remaining monkeys) in the 
colony had suddenly acquired the custom. This 
is remarkable in part because of the slow and 
gradual mode of acquisition that had typified 
the first five years after Imo’s innovation. Even 
more remarkable was the sudden jumping of 
natural boundaries, apparently caused by the 
Koshima miracle. 
Documentation 
To be sure, we must not expect too much from 
Lyall Watson’s sources. Watson has warned us 
that the complete story was not told and that 
he was “forced to improvise the details.” But 
we should expect to find some evidence of the 
mysteriousness of the Koshima events of 1958. 
In particular, we should expect to find evidence 
of an episode of sudden learning within the 
troop at this time (though perhaps not in one 
afternoon) and evidence of the sudden appear- 
ance of potato washing in other troops some- 
time soon after the Koshima event. We also 
have a negative expectation of the literature; it 
should fail to report certain important details. 
It will not (we expect) tell us the exact number 
of monkeys washing potatoes prior to or after 
the event of 1958, nor will it provide us with 
an explanation of how the post-event Koshima 
learners were able to acquire their knowledge. 
After all, it is Watson’s claim that the event 
produced paranormal learning of potato 
washing. These three expectations will be tested 
against the literature. Was there a sudden event 
at Koshima? Did acquisition at other colonies 
follow closely the Koshima event? Does Watson 
