The Skeptical Inquirer 
For years paranormalists complained: “Why don’t scien- 
tists investigate this?” Now that scientists regularly take up 
the challenge in the pages of the Skeptical Inquirer, the true 
believers howl “Debunkers!” and run the other way. 
For ten 
years, this journal of the Committee for the Scientific Investi- 
gation of Claims of the Paranormal has been a lone voice in a 
sea of irrationality. 
High-quality articles with plenty of refer- 
ences thoroughly survey and analyze all kinds of paranormal 
claims. Sure, there’s plenty of debunking—usually right on tar- 
get. Anyone who reads from the extensive literature of the 
paranormal has to read the Skeptical Inquirer, if only for bal- 
ance. 
| purchased a complete set of back issues; you can’t 
get this information anywhere else. 
—T.S. 
e 
Matthew's chest pains disappeared. 
His relationships 
improved with his wife, his children, his coworkers, and his 
community. 
If | were a pro-reincarnation therapist, | might ar- 
gue that his cardiac neurosis was related to his death in a pre- 
vious lifetime and that his recovery was made possible by re- 
calling the event in hypnosis. 
However, because my thinking 
is more in tune with contemporary psychology, | emphasize 
that Matthew, like many psychosomatic patients, was under a 
i 
; Lp. 
; 
i 
(Left) Do you see the 
demon in the Queen's 
hair? Some did, and the 
Canadian dollar bill had 
to be re-engraved as a 
result. 
(Right) Physicist 
Bernard Leikind 
demonstrates that no 
special preparation, 
belief, or miracles are 
required to “fire-walk” 
_ 
across hot coals 
4 without injury. 
significant degree of stress but lacked the means to express 
his emotions adequately. 
He was aware of this problem and 
traced its origin to his father’s strict discipline. Age regres- 
sion in hypnosis permitted some aspiration of pent-up emo- 
tion, but a deeply therapeutic abreaction did not occur until he 
“regressed” to the alleged past life of Jacques Trecaulte. The 
further he got from reality, in other words, the more he was 
able to show emotion. 
Past-life regressions may be therapeu- 
tic not because they are real but precisely because they are 
not. They create distance from reality and allow the expres- 
sion of otherwise taboo thoughts and emotions. 
e 
Stephen Barrett “sent a healthy four-year-old girl to five 
chiropractors for a ‘check up.’ The first said the child’s shoul- 
der blades were ‘out of place’ and found ‘pinched nerves to 
her stomach and gall bladder.’ The second said the child’s 
pelvis was ‘twisted.’ 
The third said one hip was ‘elevated’ 
and that spinal misalignments could cause ‘headaches, ner- 
ousness, equilibrium or digestive problems’ in the future. The 
fourth predicted ‘bad periods and rough childbirth’ if her 
‘shorter left leg’ were not treated. The fifth not only found hip 
and neck problems, but also ‘adjusted them’ without bother- 
ing to ask permission.” 
Completely inconsistent findings were 
also diagnosed in two adult women. 
The Skeptical Inquirer 
Kendrick Frazier, Editor 
$22.50 /year 
(4 issues) from: 
The Skeptical Inquirer 
P.O. Box 229 
Buffalo, NY 14215-0229 
Science Confronts the Paranormal 
Here’s an anthology of some of the best articles to ap- 
pear in the Skeptical Inquirer (reviewed above) between 1981 
and 1986. 
Included are pieces on parapsychology, the psy- 
chology of misperception, psychic detectives, poltergeists, as- 
trology, palmistry, UFOs, fringe archaeology, and creationism. 
In general, the authors bring a high level of expertise to their 
subjects, giving the side of the story you seldom hear, but 
can't make an informed decision without. 
—T.S. 
e 
An anecdote cited by American journalist Jack Harrison 
Pollack is an almost burlesque example of the lengths to 
which determined believers will go to make the outcome fit the 
prediction. 
Pollack is the author of a full-length biography of 
the Dutch clairvoyant Gerard Croiset, which Tenhaeff helped 
Science Confronts the Paranormal 
Kendrick Frazier, Editor 
ne 
1986; 367 pp. 
: 
$16.95 
SCIENCE 
($18.95 postpaid) from: 
CONFRONTS THE 
Prometheus Books 
} ARAN 
700 East Amherst St. 
|S P «engin nae 
Buffalo, NY 14215 
3 pane ne 
800/421-0351 
| oor 
. eS 
198 
him with and vouched for. Consulted in a 1950 Arnheim rape 
case, Croiset “saw” that the rapist had “an abnormally big 
genital organ.” When the police arrested a suspect, they had 
a good look at his private parts but found them to be standard 
size. Never mind, says Pollack, “They learned that he was a 
twenty-year-old cook who occasionally used a big, red basting 
syringe in the kitchen, which prompted Croiset’s image of an 
abnormally large genital organ.” 
e 
C.R. Snyder, a psychologist at the University of Kansas, 
and his colleagues drew up a personality description that in- 
corporated the characteristics they found most people be- 
lieved they possessed. 
They showed this description to three 
groups of people, each of whom was asked to rate, on a scale 
of 1 to 5, how well they were described by it. The individuals 
in the first group were told it was a universal personality 
sketch, and the average rating was 3.2. Individuals in the 
second group were asked for the month in which they were 
born and were then told the statement was a horoscope for 
their signs. On the average, they rated it 3.76. The individu- 
als in the third group were asked for the day on which he or 
she was born and were told that the description was his or her 
personal horoscope. This group rated the same description 
an average of 4.38. Apparently those who want to believe will 
do so! 
