Fads and Fallacies in the Name of 
Science ¢ Science: Good, Bad, and 
Bogus ° The New Age 
Martin Gardner is a well-known science writer who for 
years authored the “Mathematical Games” column in Scien- 
tific American. 
His Fads and Fallacies in the Name of Sci- 
ence, first published in 1952, is the classic of skeptical litera- 
ture. 
In this volume, Gardner displays some of the best quali- 
ties of a skeptical author: good writing, good research in an 
area fraught with obscurity, and genuine fascination for pseu- 
doscience and crankery of all kinds. 
His book is a parade of 
eccentric people and eccentric theories: hollow and flat Earth, 
bizarre physics, Lysenkoism, the Bates vision-correction sys- 
tem, Reich’s orgonomy, general semantics, parapsychology, 
and medical quackery (always a fertile field). 
You’d have to 
spend years haunting libraries and writing away for pamphlets 
to assemble half of the histories and biographies that Gardner 
presents here in a thoroughly sane, good-humored style. 
Gardner has not been idle since Fads and Fallacies ap- 
peared. He’s written many essays on pseudoscience for di- 
verse publications, which have now been assembled into two 
volumes. Science: Good, Bad, and Bogus, which appeared in 
1981, is a feisty collection that questions a wide range of top- 
ics from the edge of science, including such current controver- 
sies as human-ape communication, “physics consciousness,” 
catastrophe theory, and Bible science. 
The New Age: Notes 
of a Fringe Watcher is an especially entertaining, gossipy 
book, featuring chapters on Margaret Mead’s occult beliefs, 
Shirley MacLaine, creationism, Rupert Sheldrake, the face on 
Mars, L. Ron Hubbard (the founder of Scientology), and chan- 
neling. Both collections contain damning indictments of mod- 
ern parapsychology. 
Needless to say, parapsychologists de- 
spise Gardner. 
—T.S. 
e 
Since [Albert] Abrams’ day, hundreds of similar electrical 
devices have reaped fortunes for their inventors. 
In Los Ange- 
les, for example, Dr. Ruth B. Drown is currently operating an 
Abrams-type machine which diagnoses ailments from the “vi- 
brations” of blood samples. She keeps a huge file of blotting 
papers on which are preserved samples of the blood of all her 
patients. By placing a sample in another machine, she can 
tune the device to the patient, then broadcast healing rays to 
him while he remains at home! 
—Fads and Fallacies 
e 
Some idea of the worth of homeopathic medicines may be 
gathered from the fact that one of them (no longer used) was 
called /Jachryma filia, and consisted of tears from a weeping 
young girl. Other curious remedies are made from such sub- 
stances as powdered starfish (asterias rubens), skunk secre- 
tion (mephitis), crushed live bedbugs (cimex /ectularius), pow- 
dered anthracite coal, powdered oyster shells, and uric acid 
(acidum uricum) obtained from human urine or snake 
excrement. 
—Fads and Fallacies 
e 
Geologists find strange things in the ground, but none so 
strange as the "fossils" unearthed by Johann Beringer, a 
learned professor of science at the University of Wurzburg. 
. 
. 
. 
Professor Beringer had an unusual theory. Some fossils, he 
Fads and Fallacies in 
the Name of Science 
Martin Gardner 
1952, 1957; 363 pp. 
$6.50 
($7.75 postpaid) from: 
Dover Publications 
Attn: CRX 
31 East Second Street 
Mineola, NY 115014 
800/223-3130 
Martin Gardner 
1983; 432 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Avon Books 
New York, NY 
Science: Good, 
Bad, and Bogus 
admitted, might be the remains of life that perished in the 
great flood of Noah, but most of them were "peculiar stones" 
carved by God himself as he experimented with the kinds of 
life he intended to create. 
Beringer was ecstatic when his teen-age helpers began to 
dig up hundreds of stones that supported his hypothesis. 
They bore images of the bodies of dead insects, birds and 
fishes never seen on earth. One bird had a fish's head—an 
idea God had apparently discarded. 
Other stones showed the 
sun, moon, five-pointed stars, and comets with blazing tails. 
He began to find stones with Hebrew letters. One had "Jeho- 
vah" carved on it... 
. 
In 1726 Beringer published a huge treatise on these mar- 
velous discoveries. 
. 
. 
. Colleagues tried to convince [him] he 
was being bamboozled, but he dismissed this as "vicious rail- 
lery" by stubborn, establishment enemies. 
No one knows what finally changed the professor’s mind. 
It was said that he found a stone with his own name on it! An 
inquiry was held. One of his assistants confessed. 
It turned 
out that the two peculiar stones had been carved by two pecu- 
liar colleagues, one the university's librarian, the other a pro- 
fessor of geography. 
Poor trusting, stupid Beringer, his career shattered, spent 
his life's savings buying up copies of his idiotic book and burn- 
ing them. 
—Science: Good, Bad, and Bogus 
e 
Pam McNeeley spent more than $10,000 on Ramtha and 
is now one of his most vocal critics. Pam is single, 32, and 
works for a computer firm in Sausalito. She was horrified by 
what she heard the Ram say in 1985. He predicted that in 
three years there would be a great holocaust in which cities 
would be destroyed by disease before the coming of “Twelve 
Days of Light.” A trio of gods—Yahweh, Ramtha, and Id (How 
did Freud’s id get into J.Z.’s mind?) will then arrive in great 
ships of light to battle the evil Old Testament god Jehovah. 
AIDS, said Ramtha, is nature’s way of eliminating gays. 
In ad- 
dition to disease, there will be major earthquakes. 
“Don’t live 
on a fault line,” the Ram said, “It’s a zipper.” Ramsters were 
urged to buy pigs and chickens, move to the Northwest, and 
start farming. Ramtha warned his listeners that if they told 
anyone about all this he would destroy them. 
—The New Age 
¢ 
To me the most interesting aspect of [Shirley MacLaine’s 
It’s All in the Playing] is the disclosure that Shirley is teetering 
on the edge of solipsism, the ultimate in self-absorption. 
If 
each of us creates his or her own reality, she writes, then “ob- 
jective reality simply does not exist.” Could Gerry be nothing 
more than a creation in her dream? “Perhaps he didn’t exist 
for anyone else at all!” 
She seems serious. 
At a New Year’s Eve party, a crystal 
was passed around, and everyone, when they held it, told 
what they wanted for the new year. 
Shirley began by saying 
she was the only person alive in her universe. 
Shock waves 
went around the table. Since everything is her dream, Shirley 
went on, the best way she can improve the world is to improve 
herself. When scandalized guests raised objections, Shirley 
felt she was “creating them to object . 
. 
. | hadn’t resolved my- 
self. 
In other words | was them. 
They were me.” 
—The New Age 
The New Age 
Notes of a Fringe Watcher 
Martin Gardner 
1988; 273 pp. 
$19.95 
($21.95 postpaid) from: 
Prometheus Books 
700 East Amherst St. 
Buffalo, NY 14215 
800/421-0351 
199 
