_ Inside a New Age Pyramid Scheme 
by Jeff Greenwald 
he man called Icarus had had a rough week. In Febru- 
ary of 1987, eight days before our first conversation, he 
had attended a strange and secret meeting in a home in 
Berkeley, California. The house was full of bright- 
eyed men and women drawn from the East Bay’s vast New 
Age community. These people had come together to play a 
game—a prosperity game that would “revitalize their rela- 
tionship to money,” exposing all their doubts and aspirations 
connected with it. The cost of joining in the fun was $1,500; 
but, if all went as expected, everyone would be able to walk 
away with a bulging purse of $12,000. 
The day after the meeting, Icarus went to the bank, with- 
drew fifteen $100 bills, placed the money in an unmarked 
envelope and handed it over to a complete stranger. This sum 
would have been enough to buy a round-the-world ticket 
from any discount travel agency; but what Icarus had pur- 
chased was a passenger seat in the Airplane Game. 
He had no delusions about what he had done. It was a 
calculated risk, for the Airplane Game was nothing more 
than a classic, and illegal, pyramid scheme. It worked like 
this: Icarus and seven other “passengers” formed the bottom 
level, four “crew” members formed the next, and above them 
were two “copilots.” At the apex of this pyramid sat the 
“pilot.” Once all the passengers were aboard, the pilot would 
collect the eight $1,500 fares and “pilot out”—$10,500 the 
richer. 
With the pilot gone, the pyramid would split. Each copi- 
lot would become the pilot of a separate plane. The crew 
members would become copilots, while the passengers— 
like Icarus—would move up one notch, to the level of crew. 
Each of these two new planes would have to bring aboard 
eight new passengers so that another split could take place. 
By the fourth split, Icarus would be a pilot himself. 
The mathematics of all this may seem confusing—in 
Jeff Greenwald is a San Francisco Bay Area writer who frequently contributes to Image, the Sunday supplement magazine of the 
San Francisco Examiner. Early in 1987, the Examiner gave him $1,500 to buy into the surreptitious “Airplane Game,” a technically 
illegal New Age pyramid scheme that at that time had reached a frenzy of activity in the Bay Area. Using the code name “Right 
Livelihood,” Greenwald entered a milieu that was at once unique to late 
1980s San Francisco and as old as the human traits of folly, 
greed, and eternal optimism. He would like to acknowledge the considerable help of Image editor Peggy Northrop in the writing of 
this story. 
—T'S. 
35 
