_ SCIENTISTS 
AGREE 
EARTH TIME 
_ IS SHORT!!! 
CLOCK 
| HOW THEY 
DENY YOU 
SLACK 
IT'S 9:30 OR SO, BACKSTAGE AT 
the Stone, a nightclub on Broadway in 
San Francisco. Guy Deuel, the ex-cattle 
rancher from Bolivia with the artificial 
septum, is fondling an Uzi, the Israeli automatic wea- 
pon favored by death squads in Central America. The 
Uzi—like the ridge between Deuel's nostrils—is plas- 
tic. Deuel, who is an imposing fortyish figure in a tan 
trenchcoat, looks uncannily like G. Gordon Liddy 
and has the air of a man who is no stranger to life- 
and-death situations. Deuel is a SubGenius. 
Out front on stage, Janor Hypercleats is stalking 
back and forth across the stage delivering a hell-rais- 
ing sermon to an audience of several hundred souls. 
Janor mows lawns for a living in Little Rock, Arkan- 
sas, and cuts an odd figure in his garish orange and 
green pants, looking like the penultimate hick come 
to the big city. It is not totally clear just what Janor is 
raving about in his Little Rock twang—something to 
do with "Launching the Head," golfing, "BOB," 
Heaven, and his sex life or lack thereof. But that 
hardly seems to matter. Janor is a SubGenius. 
What has brought both Guy and Janor to San 
Francisco in the damp chill of November, 1985, is the 
chance to participate in the SubGenius Devival, a 
one-night-only extravaganza offered to both the gen- 
eral public and to devoted members of the Church of 
the SubGenius. There are bands from San Francisco, 
singers and preachers from Dallas, an intense charac- 
ter in shades from back East who calls himself "the 
Pope of All New York” and a smattering of artists, 
go-fers, and borderline basketcases. 
IN AN ERA OF DESIGNER JEANS, 
designer drugs, and designer cigarettes, it 
| 
was probably inevitable that someone 
+ 
would establish a designer cult—in this 
‘| 
case one whose members keep redesign- 
ing its contours on an almost daily basis. 
“BOR” 
Is the Church of the SubGenius 
the Ultimate Cult? 
Re Sea 
by Jay Kinney 
Illustrations by Paul Mavrides 
SubGenii may be brainwashed—one need only listen 
to an hour of drool-flecked conversation about X-ists 
and "BOB" and Wotan to arrive at that conclusion— 
but, contrary to every other cult on the horizon, the 
SubGenii are busily washing their own brains. If 
there is a "Mister Big" pulling strings from behind 
the scenes he stays very well hidden indeed. Of 
course, there is the nagging question of cult-founder 
J.R. "BOB" Dobbs—a shadowy figure in the tradi- 
tion of L. Ron Hubbard and Howard Hughes—but 
Dobbs's death in early 1985 brought a halt to any ef- 
forts to centralize control of cult members within a 
rigid hierarchy. 
What remains may be scary or at least nauseating 
—the best estimates of SubGenius membership place 
the cult at approximately the same size as the forces 
of Lyndon LaRouche—but it is a decentralized phe- 
nomenon. As police departments around the country 
have learned, the threat that the average SubGenius 
represents is the danger of the lone berserker run 
amok, not the threat of lockstep fascism. 
SubGenii are not interested in selling you flowers 
at airports. That is not SubGenius style. They are far 
more likely to sidle up to you in a public lavatory and 
pee on your shoes. That is SubGenius style. 
The origins of the Church of the SubGenius are 
hazy at best. The earliest known nationally circulated 
Church literature bears copyrights dating no earlier 
than the late 1970s. But Church old-timers like Rev. 
Ivan Stang of Dallas date their involvement in the 
cult back to the late '50s. At that time the Church was 
a local Dallas-based group numbering no more than a 
couple of dozen members. Like other obscure fringe 
groups of that era such as the Science of Mentalphys- 
ics group in Yucca Valley, California, or the Mark- 
Age saucer-contactee bunch in Florida, the Sub- 
Genius Foundation, as it was then known, was a self- 
perpetuating organization clustered around a charis- 
matic leader. 
Ca 
Jay Kinney is a former editor of and a frequent contributor to Whole Earth Review. He’s also the editor of Gnosis: A 
Journal of the Western Inner Traditions (see p. 30). Recently he adopted the role of investigative reporter in order to 
research the mysterious Church of the SubGenius, one of the fastest-growing religions of the twentieth century. Here he 
throws some light on this cult’s enigmatic beliefs and history, which until now have been inaccessible to outsiders. 
—T.S. 
Illustrations ©1983 by Paul Mavrides. Reprinted with permission from The Book of the SubGenius, Simon & Schuster. 
209 
