Pseudo-Science and Society 
in Nineteenth-Century America 
Phrenology, the “science” of analyzing character by meas- 
uring the bumps on the head, is now all but forgotten. 
But in 
the nineteenth century it was as respectable as chiropractic is 
today. 
The American Phrenological Journal, started in 1838, 
lasted until 1911; references to phrenology appear frequently 
in the works of Walt Whitman, Edgar Allan Poe, George Eliot, 
Charlotte Bronté, Mark Twain, and many of their contemporar- 
ies. Phrenology was only one of many pseudosciences that 
played roles in the art, politics, and society of the 1800s, in- 
cluding hydropathy (the “water-cure,” which consisted of pro- 
longed bathing and water drinking), mesmerism (“animal mag- 
netism”), homeopathy (enjoying a comeback in the 1980s), 
spiritualism (also on the upswing, in the form of “channel- 
ing”), and electrical cures (including electric belts, corsettes, 
and hats). 
In Pseudo-Science and Society in Nineteenth-Century 
America, nine authors (professors of history, English, and reli- 
gion) describe the strange theories of the day, with special 
, 
emphasis on their places in the social milieu. 
The rise of 
many of these ideas was coupled with social reform move- 
ments that promoted women’s rights, moral regeneration, and 
various brands of utopianism. A chapter on sexuality and the 
pseudo-sciences, for example, describes the popular eugenics 
movements that recommended “scientific breeding” to pro- 
duce a superior stock of Americans, as well as “group-mar- 
riage” and “free love” movements, and various sex-practice 
prescriptions like Alice Stockham’s “Karezza” (prolonged sex 
without orgasm). Another chapter argues that mesmerism 
was the direct precursor of modern psychology. 
The parallels with late twentieth-century America are ines- 
capable. 
The perspective afforded by a century of time could 
help us to avoid the same mistakes twice—but I’m not hola- 
ing my breath waiting for this to happen. How many beliefs 
that seem like “science” today will be part of the contents 
when a book like this is written about the twentieth century? 
—T.S. 
e 
tis difficult to read without a shudder the “cure” offered 
by a quack in New York for syphilis, or “self-abuse.” 
“The pa- 
tient sat naked upon a sort of toilet throne, his bare back rest- 
ing against a metal plate, his scrotum suspended in a whirling 
pool.” The plate and pool were linked by wire to a power 
source; therapy began when the circuit was completed. 
While 
Diamond Dealers and Feather Merchants 
In this delightful little volume, distinguished chemist Irning 
Klotz presents a gossipy look into the human side of the sci- 
entific enterprise, with an emphasis on follies, eccentricities, 
and curious behaviors. 
Included are chapters on the pro- 
nouncements of great scientists that turned out to be embar- 
rassingly wrong, a wonderful discussion of the “N rays” discov- 
ered and studied for years by Professor Rene Blondlot (over 
200 papers were published by many researchers) until it was 
shown that they didn’t exist, the strange case of Russian 
“polywater” (the inspiration for Kurt Vonnegut’s “ice-nine” in 
Cat’s Cradle), which also didn’t exist, and the “yearning to be- 
lieve” that can lead to rationalization of contradictory informa- 
tion. 
Klotz’s overall message: By viewing how others have be- 
come the prisoners of their own mistaken ideas, perhaps we 
can release ourselves from the “conceptual bottles” into 
which we have been processed. 
—T.S. 
e 
When was the decision made that N rays are a delusion? 
Never. There is no authoritarian hierarchy in science. 
Science 
has no vicar on earth to reveal doctrine, no central committee 
A BOON FoR WOMEN OF ALL AGES. | 
BY ROYAL 
Ser LETTERS PATENT. 
HARNESS’ 
ELECTRIC CORSET, *= 
my) waaRras |the)iiie; 
IT CURES 
x 
“WEAK BACK 
BACK,” 
abould 
be won 
hy all who 
es a2 
nA 
) oe 
od, the orc at 
ie uided 
e B 5 ap 
i 
sithy: dewslopment,snd 
3 
MATIC 
ant ORGANIC 
ECTIONS, Ac. 
j 
RY ONE AND YOU WILL NEVER 
. 
WEAR ANY OTHER KIND. 
‘ 
THE mene THING? FOR LADIES. | %& 
apiece, aod 
tow 
preoege 
ses 
Sos 
Qz 
= 
2 are w 
easly ow pp Stoned, ioc 
nity 
of testiog (be MARVELLOOA 
Biti-us HEADACHES 
AMO 
FaTiCUE 
Mise M Haceimo, 
©, 
Antul.rad, 
To 
“ 
IMPORTANT NOTICE RPE iatpobiias  husetarcat 
Le 
ee 
“No Woman Should be Without One!!!” 
They are honestly worth four times thelr cost, apart from their gepaine curative proprrties 
(berefore, BEND AT ONCE Che ue or Postal Order for PIVE SHILLINGS and 64.. and obtsi0 coe 
(f HARNESS’ BEAUTIPUL ELECTRIC.CORSETS, before you forget it. 
Mote only address 
CURES 
‘“*WEAK BACK,” 
52,0XFORD 
ST, LONDON.w. 
BATTERY co..LTD., 
Harness’ Electric Corset, advertised in The Queen, March 12, 1892. 
this therapy doubtless cured lads of some of the vices in 
question, normal therapy worked from much the same (albeit 
less graphic) premises. 
[“Electrophysiologist” Wilhelm] Erb 
suggested, for “flaccidity of the testicles” due to sexual ex- 
cess, “the passage of a moderately strong faradic or galvanic 
current through the testicles for a few minutes,” while the 
JAMA of March 19, 1892, reported that M. Kronfeld of the 
General Hospital of Vienna treated syphilis with an electric 
bath. Dommer, in the meantime, suggested treating “sexual 
neurasthenia” by passing a faradic current between one elec- 
trode in the urethra and the other in the rectum. 
Pseudo-Science and Society 
in Nineteenth-Century America 
Arthur Wrobel, Editor 
1987; 245 pp. 
$24 
($26.50 postpaid) from: 
University Press of Kentucky 
P.O. Box 6525 
Ithaca, NY 14851 
800/666-2211 
to proclaim the party line. Actual histories of novel discover- 
ies, except when religious or political authorities have inter- 
vened, have followed a pattern best described by an aphorism 
attributed to the founder of the mathematical theory of electro- 
magnetic waves, James Clark Maxwell. 
In his introductory lec- 
ture on light, Maxwell is said to have remarked: 
"There are two theories of the nature of light, the cor- 
puscle theory and the wave theory; we used to believe in the 
corpuscle theory; now we believe in the wave theory because 
all who believed in the corpuscle theory have died." 
Diamond Dealers and 
Feather Merchants 
Tales from the Sciences 
Irving M. Klotz 
1986; 126 pp. 
$24.95 
($27.45 postpaid) from: 
Birkhauser 
Attn: Order Dept. 
44 Hartz Way 
Seacaucus, NJ 07094 
800/526-7254 
129 
