"ABOUT THIS BOOK 
The Fringes of Reason was born in 
1964, when as a seventh-grader my 
mind was permanently warped by Frank 
Edwards’s sensationalistic classic, 
Stranger Than Science. | misspent 
many subsequent hours transfixed by 
volumes of the weird lore of flying sau- 
cers, bigfoot, ghosts, and the hollow 
earth. My continuing love for this ne- 
glected genre of journalism is reflected 
by the humongous library of “strange- 
but-true” literature |’ve collected to- 
gether over the years, including an en- 
tire run of Fate magazine, 1950s and 
’'60s UFO magazines, five filing cabinet 
drawers full of weird newspaper clip- 
pings, and over a thousand respectable 
and not-so-respectable anomaly books. 
(All of this eccentric research, by the 
way, has finally driven me to the weird- 
est pursuit of all: graduate study in 
insect evolutionary biology at Cornell 
University.) 
In 1986 editor Kevin Kelly invited me 
to guest-edit an issue of Whole Earth 
Review, where | had been working as 
managing editor, that would focus on 
my predilection for the unusual. | joined 
forces with my favorite graphic designer 
—my wife, Rebecca Wilson—to produce 
Whole Earth Review #52 (Fall 1986), 
subtitled “The Fringes of Reason.” That 
issue struck a chord out there in reader- 
land, becoming one of the only issues 
of the magazine ever to sell out, and 
garnering unexpected reviews in news- 
papers and magazines across the coun- 
try. Large lots were even purchased by 
college professors to serve as supple- 
mental reading in critical thinking 
classes. The book you hold in your 
hands, also co-produced with Rebecca, 
includes most of the material from that 
issue, plus lots more. It’s only the tip of 
the iceberg of what | wanted to include, 
but | chose to go for thoroughness of 
coverage of selected topics rather than 
an exhaustive but superficial approach. 
Do you have comments (critical, 
complimentary, or otherwise) about this 
book? Would you like to contribute a 
piece of writing on some fringe topic? 
Are you aware of a good fringe periodi- 
cal, book, or organization that you think 
our readers ought to know about? Do- 
you participate in an unconventional 
belief system that we didn’t mention? 
We'd love to hear from you. Send all 
reviews, recommendations, strange 
pamphlets, self-published books of 
unorthodox lore, bizarre products, etc., 
to the address listed on this page. The 
information collected may be used to 
assemble a future Fringes volume or in 
Fringes updates in Whole Earth Review. 
We'll pay for the writing we publish, 
including letters of comment. 
ABOUT ORDERING BOOKS 
“Access” is a Whole Earth Catalog 
tradition. In the reviews in this book, 
we've supplied complete information for 
ordering directly from publishers. This is 
a reliable way to track down a hard-to- 
find book, but we strongly recommend 
that you order through your local book- 
store whenever possible—this will save 
you shipping costs and may be quicker 
as well. If you do order from publishers, 
keep in mind that the shipping costs 
quoted are for single copies. This 
amount usually decreases with multiple- 
copy orders, so it’s best to inquire be- 
fore sending too much money. The 
prices listed are for U.S. orders. Read- 
ers in other countries should inquire 
about additional shipping costs. 
ABOUT THE 
WHOLE EARTH CATALOG & 
WHOLE EARTH REVIEW 
Originally conceived by Stewart 
Brand in 1968 as a mobile truck store, 
the Whole Earth Catalog became a 
portable store printed on newsprint that 
ultimately developed into a series of 
remarkable volumes of concentrated 
generalist information (The Last Whole 
Earth Catalog, 1971; The Whole Earth 
Epilog, 1974; The Next Whole Earth 
Catalog, 1980; The Whole Earth Soft- 
ware Catalog, 1984; The Essential 
Whole Earth Catalog, 1986). Stewart 
started CoEvolution Quarterly in 1974 to 
serve as an ongoing extension of the 
Whole Earth Catalog, and in 1984 its 
name was changed to Whole Earth Re- 
view. These days it’s edited by Kevin 
Kelly, and each issue of this general- 
interest magazine includes 144 pages 
of unorthodox news, firsthand reports of 
personal experiments, art, cartoons, 
and book and product reviews. There’s 
no advertising (except for two pages of 
subscriber classifieds). Subscriptions 
are $20/year (four issues) for U.S. sur- 
face mail; foreign subscribers add $4/ 
year for surface delivery, and $8/year 
for airmail. Send checks or credit card 
info to the address below. 
Recently Whole Earth has begun to 
issue Catalogs centered around particu- 
lar themes. One of these is the book 
you hold in your hands, The Fringes of 
Reason, and the other is Signal: Com- 
munication Tools for the Information 
Age (also published by Harmony 
Books). You can order additional copies 
of The Fringes of Reason directly from 
us postpaid for $13, and copies of Sig- 
nal for $15. 
OUR ADDRESS: 
ET 
SS 
FRINGES 
. 
Whole Earth Catalog 
27 Gate Five Road 
Sausalito, CA 94965 
415/332-1716 
HIGH FINANCE 
All of Whole Earth’s projects are 
generated under the umbrella of Point 
Foundation, a nonprofit organization 
mandated to encourage educational 
projects and conjure up innovation. 
Open accounting has always been a 
Point modus operandi, and in this spirit 
we present the following breakdown of 
how the cover price of this book gets 
divvied up: 
$6.35 to Harmony Books 
6.28 to the bookseller 
1.20 to the book wholesaler 
.16 to John Brockman Associates 
.96 to Whole Earth 
14.95 Fringes cover price 
—= ES: 
(Facing page) A small part of the intrepid crew who worked on this book look on in amazement 
as the rest are abducted by ant entities from Beta Galactose. Front row, left to right: Ted 
Schultz (editor), Rebecca Wilson (designer), Don Ryan (photographer). Middle row: Janet 
Butcher (Linotronic operator), Hal Robins (illustrator), Giovanni Bacigalupi (production assis- 
tant). Back row: Elaine Karsevar (typist), Dixon Wragg (proofreader), Susan Erkel-Ryan (pro- 
duction manager). Photo by Teena Rosen. 
