Or that Venus sparkling in the clear dawn sky 
might be a flying saucer. Our beliefs may predispose 
us to misinterpret the facts, when ideally the facts 
should serve as the evidence upon which we base 
our beliefs. 
Garden-variety flying saucer sightings based on 
such misperceptions clutter up the UFO literature. 
Some UFO investigators, like the late astronomer 
J. Allen Hynek, have concluded that after the gar- 
bage is sorted out, a few unexplainable cases still 
remain. Others, like Aviation Week and Space Tech- 
nology magazine editor Philip J. Klass, don’t agree. 
“In twelve years of investigating some of the most 
famous and highly acclaimed UFO reports,’’ says 
Klass, “I have yet to find one that could not be 
explained in prosaic terms . 
. 
. I’m not skeptical 
on principle, just on evidence.”’ 
Often a paranormal claim gets thoroughly debunked 
but continues to travel far and wide. Belief, not 
evidence, supplies the fuel. Lawrence Kusche, a 
pilot and investigator for the Committee for the 
Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal, 
scrupulously examined every allegedly mysterious 
disappearance in the so-called ‘Bermuda Triangle,”’ 
for example, and found nothing really mysterious 
about any of them. He reported his findings in 
two books, The Bermuda Triangle Mystery — Solved 
and The Disappearance of Flight 19. These books 
have sold very poorly compared to sensationalistic 
works like Charles Berlitz’s The Bermuda Triangle. 
“| assumed that people who read the weird books 
would naturally want to read the other side of the 
story and find out the truth,’’ he commented. “‘| 
was wrong.’’ Bermuda Triangle lore continues to 
percolate through American popular culture. A 
movie on the Triangle was released a couple of 
years ago, claiming to be factual. Its television ads 
were filled with flying saucers, underwater horrors, 
time warps, and planeloads of screaming people. 
Some skeptics have concluded that every last 
paranormal mystery can be accounted for by 
these twin forces of true believers and tales 
amplified in the retelling. 
Check out the history of the claim. The past 
can put a currently popular paranormal belief in a 
THE FACE ON MARS 
(Left) Four books and numerous magazine and newspaper 
articles have been written interpreting this mile-long feature 
of Martian geography as a great stone ‘‘face’’ carved by 
an ancient Martian civilization. NASA officials, who believe 
that the subject of this Viking 1 photograph is attributable 
to purely natural geological processes, were happy to supply 
two other photographs of curious Martian features: a five- 
mile-wide Happy Face and a lava flow in the form of Kermit 
the Frog! Pop Culture of the Gods? 
