in 1961 by one of Kempe’s students had 
revealed hundreds of cases. Almost no one 
at the time suspected, however, that the real 
figure might be in the hundreds of thousands, 
or even a million cases annually. What has 
allowed society to “see” child abuse is not 
only a novel medical concept, but changed 
laws, the extension of protective services, 
interested media and, above all, a widened 
public awareness. 
What Else Is Out There? 
We have discussed meteorites, lightning 
balls, and battered children, and have seen 
in each case the difficulty that science and 
society have had in perceiving the anom- 
alous event. An obvious question presents 
itself: What else is being missed? 
In my studies of social flows of information 
relating to a number of interesting hypo- 
thetical anomalies such as UFOs, sea 
serpents, bigfoot, and spontaneous human 
combustion, I have found exactly the same 
kind of reticence to report observations as I 
have discussed in relation to the real anom- 
alies above. As Ludwik Fleck would have 
been interested to know, the unusual event 
is generally not reported; if reported, it is 
not published; and if it is published, it is 
usually ridiculed. And so, simply, it is not 
part of our socially constructed reality. 
This does not mean, of course, that every 
event so hidden is a real anomaly. While 
some UFO sightings are very difficult to ex- 
plain, most (about 90 percent) prove upon 
investigation to be ordinary things that have 
been misperceived. Most anomaly investi- 
gators can relate a large number of cases of 
mistaken identity, as well as a smaller, but 
usually quite memorable, number of hoaxes. 
As such experiences accumulate, investigators 
become more wary. When I read J. Allen 
Hynek’s excellent book The UFO Experience 
(see p. 161) in 1972, I was surprised that he 
limited himself largely to cases he had per- 
sonally investigated. Now I understand why! 
A great many anomaly experiences thus 
represent errors. 
What I worry about, though, are the 
anomalies that aren’t controversial, the 
ones that may not even appear in the 
Catalogs of William Corliss (see p. 109). 
We human beings are relentless experimenters 
with the world in which we live, but our 
ability to monitor the results is very modest 
in comparison to our ability to cause 
changes. The study of social intelligence 
- 
Our early warning 
systems are.set up to ° 
monitor the things 
: 
we know about. Those’ 
-whose existence we 
regarding anomalies teaches us that our 
early warning systems are set up to monitor 
the things we know about. Those whose ex- 
istence we do not suspect are perceived only 
with difficulty and after much struggle. 
Some years ago, the Smithsonian Institution 
set up a special network to monitor unusual 
events, but it described in advance what 
things it wanted to find out about. It was not 
disappointed; few of the events reported to it 
belonged to undesignated categories. In re- 
cent years, the Smithsonian’s network has 
narrowed the categories reported upon. The 
“self-constructed model” still guides the 
research we do. Again, every system of know- 
ledge is likely to have built-in blind spots. 
These blind spots are worth studying. They 
may hide things that are interesting and 
things that are dangerous. The discovery of 
the battered child syndrome helped to pave 
the way for the discovery of other categories 
of abused persons in society, including sex- 
ually abused children. I wonder what kind 
of environmental problems are hidden from 
our view because their manifestation seems 
too implausible to report. I am far from san- 
guine about the effects of the technologies, 
physical and biological, that we are intro- 
ducing into the ecology of the planet and 
our daily lives. And unless we do a great 
deal to improve our social intelligence about 
the unexpected event, we may miss the 
signals that tell us we have gone too far. 
107 
