scarred since childhood, but he believed the Bates 
exercises had repaired them. He wrote a book 
Moving the eyes up and down 
(a) and from side toside (b). 
Among the Bates 
vision-correction 
exercises that prac- 
titioners claim can 
restore perfect eye- 
sight are ‘‘swinging’’ 
(top) and “palming”’ 
(bottom). 
perspective that can be gained in no other way. 
Many of the paranormal claims and movements of 
the ’80s actually have long and colorful histories. 
One example that has made the rounds in New 
Age circles in recent years is the Bates vision- 
correction system, billed as a new, holistic way to 
treat poor eyesight with a series of easy exercises. 
Dr. William Horatio Bates was born in 1860 and 
graduated from medical school in 1885. His medical 
career was disrupted by spells of total amnesia, 
but this did not prevent him from publishing, in 
1920, his great work, The Cure of Imperfect Eyesight 
by Treatment Without Glasses. Bates claimed, con- 
trary to reality, that the eye does not focus by 
changing the shape of the eye lens. He said that 
the lens never changes shape at all, and that the 
problems orthodox doctors attribute to imperfect 
lenses are actually caused by an “abnormal condi- 
tion of mind”’ or “a wrong thought.’”’ He invented 
a series of exercises to correct these problems, 
such as ‘“‘palming’’ the eyes with the palms of the 
hands, “‘shifting’’ and “swinging’’ vision from side 
to side, and reading under difficult conditions such 
as in dim light or on a lurching streetcar. He also 
advocated staring directly at the sun for brief 
moments (which can cause genuine eye damage). 
Bates died in 1931, but disciples kept his theories 
alive. Dozens of popular books were published on 
the Bates method, and “Throw away your glasses!”’ 
became the rallying cry of an international move- 
ment in the 30s and ’40s. Thousands of people 
sincerely believed the Bates exercises had cured 
them of nearsightedness, astigmatism, cataracts, 
and glaucoma. Unfortunately, medical tests did 
not bear this out. 
One of the most prominent converts to the Bates 
system was Aldous Huxley. His corneas had been 
192 
about it, The Art of Seeing, hailed as a vindication 
by Bates sympathizers responding to criticisms 
from opthalmologists. But Huxley could be an 
embarrassment, too. Bennett Cerf wrote this ac- 
count of the time Huxley addressed a Hollywood 
banquet in the April 12, 1952, Saturday Review: 
When he arose to make his address he wore no 
glasses, and evidently experienced no difficulty in 
reading the paper he had planted on the lectern. 
Had the exercises really given him normal vision? 
|, along with 1200 other guests, watched with 
astonishment while he rattled glibly on. 
. 
. Then 
suddenly he faltered — and the disturbing truth 
became obvious. He wasn’t reading the address 
at all. He had learned it by heart. To refresh his 
memory he brought the paper closer to his eyes. 
When it was only an inch or so away he still 
couldn’t read it, and he had to fish for a magnifying 
glass in his pocket. It was an agonizing moment. 
Eventually the Bates movement ran its course. 
In 1956, a Manhattan optometrist, Philip Pollack, 
wrote the definitive book exposing its failures, The 
Truth About Eye Exercises. ‘‘It is a rare occasion in- 
deed when anyone so well informed troubles to 
take apart a pseudoscientific cult in such a thorough 
and painstaking manner,’’ wrote Martin Gardner 
in his 1957 book, Fads and Fallacies in the Name of 
Science. But today the Bates method has been res- 
urrected, minus some of Bates’ more obvious 
blunders and clothed in New Age “holistic’’ 
rhetoric. Meanwhile, the Pollack book sits forgot- 
ten on library shelves. 
The pattern is common: a new paranormal claim 
turns out to be a very old one, debunked long 
enough ago for the debunking to have been for- 
gotten. The rate at which such old, disproven, and 
forgotten theories are being revived shows a cer- 
tain unimaginativeness in the field, as if new 
paranormal theories cannot be invented fast 
enough to meet the New Age demand. And every 
time they are revived, these theories gain a little 
more venerability. It is important to remember 
that tradition and venerability aren’t necessarily 
related to credibility. 
A few years ago | attended a natural living festival 
in Connecticut and noticed an iridiagnostician on 
the program. An iridiagnostician! | felt like a 
biologist discovering a living fossil. 
Iridology was invented around 1880 by Ignatz 
Peczely of Budapest. He declared that every 
human disease can be diagnosed by studying the 
iris of the eye. He claimed — no one knows why 
— that the iris is divided into 40 zones that cor- 
respond to the different body parts. The zones 
run clockwise in one eye, counterclockwise in the 
other. Peczely gained disciples, and in 1904 his 
works were translated into English. Orthodox 
octors ridiculed iridiagnosticians, who failed to 
treat diseases accurately when tested. (Pranksters 
