UFO 
CONTACTEES 
Of the thousands of people who re- 
ceive the telepathic siren call of the 
space people, only a handful go public. 
Most aren't making any money, or even 
trying to, an indication of their sincerity. 
They heard the voices in their heads, and 
took them at face value. 
YOU HAVE BEEN REMEMBERED 
BY THE SUPERIOR RATIONAL 
Rational Culture 
Caixa Postal 78.019-26150, Belford Roxo 
Rio de Janeiro, RJ BRASIL, South America 
Flying saucer cults have become so 
prevalent in South America that they repre- 
sent a new religion; this is one of the big- 
gest "denominations." It's also the funni- 
est, partly because the translations from 
Portugese into English are so badly done 
as to severely amplify the already psy- 
chotic tone. "Our world is a bird that fabri- 
cates other birds, that we are and that 
here we are in passing." See? Not only are 
their newsletters and "Space bible," Uni- 
verse In Disenchantment, dictated by the 
space brothers, the book was actually 
printed by them! Millions of copies, im- 
ported by spaceship, imbued with healing 
power. Just owning a copy will cure any 
disease and even clear your home of pol- 
tergeists. The cosmic alien authors, collec- 
tively called the Superior Rational, offer a 
history of the Universe in which we didn't 
evolve from monkeys, but from ash-mon- 
sters formed from primordial "resin." "The 
primitive bodies were little monsters and 
afterwards monsters. Then monsters, after 
big monsters and after huge monsters 
. 
. 
. 
improving as the deformation progressed: 
they screamed-utter, made gestures to un- 
derstand each other." This may sound 
really stupid to you, but in size this cult is 
gaining on the Mormons. Write for price 
list and info under current exchange rates; 
say you need lots of info because you are 
"with the Superior Rational." SPECIFY 
THAT YOU WANT IT IN ENGLISH!! 
BEWARE! S-DAY APPROACHES! 
A.T.A. Base 
1500 N. Texas Blvd. 
Weslaco, TX 78596 
You wouldn't have suspected that the 
Armageddon Time Ark Base is located in 
Weslaco, Texas, where a hardy band of 
saucer contactees is preparing the earth 
for the hideous S. and X. Days when the 
shit's gonna hit the royal fan. But not to 
worry—if you've followed the instructions 
put out by these folks, instead of dying in 
the mass disasters you'll be awarded your 
own piece of land on the new, purged 
planet, you'll get a supply of 5-dimensional 
manna to eat, and, best of all, you'll get 
the keys to a 12-seater mini-starship to 
tool around in! Sound neat? Well, you 
better start packing, because the only way 
to join up is to "present yourself at The 
Base," where you'll udoubtedly be put to 
work doing menial labor—but think of the 
reward! Meanwhile, send $2 for their 
magazine, S. Day Report. 
<ELL 
ee Dy ss 
re AOR A WOU 
TO SYR) 
es 
‘DOOMSDAY 
SURVIVE DOOMSDAY WITH 
THE SPACE BROS.! 
Blue Rose Ministry 
P.O. Box 332 
Cornville, AZ 86325 
If you are "ready," you can become one 
of the Chosen Ones who will be rescued 
by saucer from our doomed planet. These 
folks are the select trance mediums for 
space reps from dozens of worlds. Many 
booklets and cassette tapes offered, inclu- 
ding guided tours of the Outer Planets by 
astral beings. For instance, "Ankar 22" of 
Jupiter describes all social and technical 
aspects of his home planet. This informa- 
tion is available telepathically, for NO- 
THING; yet NASA spends MILLIONS on 
crude rockets, and hasn't even been able 
to detect the huge cities on Uranus!! This 
one uses lots of revealing, low-brow 
punctuation techniques: "You can ‘learn' 
the 'mystic connection' between the 
Hopi's, the Pope's and the UFO's!" The 
Solar Space Letter is $8/year; beg for 
sample. 
INTERPLANETARY NEWS! 
The Planetary Center 
7803 Ruanne Court 
Pasadena, MD 21122 
Contactee Laura Mundo, a sweet little 
old lady, has been publishing saucer teach- 
ings in a newsletter for years. Her autobio- 
graphy, The Mundo UFO Report, is only $2 
—a steal! (Unlike many other saucerians, 
Mundo hasn't been doing it for the money.) 
In it she reveals the paths to becoming a 
Pre-Atomic Energy Being. (The Trinity, by 
the way, really means neutrons, protons, 
and electrons.) Classic contactee stuff. 
HAVE YOU LIVED ON OTHER 
WORLDS BEFORE? 
Unarius 
145 S. Magnolia Ave. 
EI Cajon, CA 92020 
This outfit must be a huge embarrass- 
ment to less flamboyant New Agers. Ruth 
Norman, aka "Uriel," by virtue of being a 
great Light-Bringer of Consciousness dis- 
guised as a nutty old lady, has successfully 
managed to keep herself surrounded by 
fawning teenage boys. Her husband was 
Jesus incarnate—but He died a few years 
back, durn it! He and almost every other 
dead holy man and great deceased scien- 
tist speak through Ruth, however, and the 
results fill more than eighty books. As vivid- 
ly illustrated by photos of Ruth's garish 
costumes and Temple, this is one of the 
most patently, brazenly, ludicrously, and 
inadvertently fake saucer cults going; be- 
cause of that, it's also one of the most 
successful. Some choice teachings: Earth 
is about to become the thirty-third member 
of the Interplanetary Confederation. Satan 
has learned his lesson and is now a good 
guy. (If he can change, so can you!) The 
aliens, guided by Ruth, will arrive in a huge 
"city" made of thirty-three saucers stacked 
in a pyramid. Newsletter, $8/year, or $1 
for wonderful Introduction to Unarius book- 
let, well worth it for the shock you'll get 
when you fully comprehend that people 
BELIEVE this stuff. 
WAR ON SKEPTICS 
Secrets Newsletter 
HC 80 Box 156 
Marshall, AR 72650 
It will be "too late for all but a handful 
to escape the pulverizing, the fire and 
deadly smoke that will come raining down 
from out of the strange craft we call Flying 
Saucers, totally obliterating cities, towns 
and the countryside (fear of this invasion 
is the real reason for Mr. Reagan's 'Star 
Wars’ program)." $1 for sample; $8/yr. 
INVASION OF THE SAUCER MEN 
SST Publications/DELVE Magazine 
Gene Duplantier, 
17 Shetland St. 
Willowdale, ONT., CANADA M2M 1X5 
Great $1 catalog of UFO books; titles 
like The Martian Alphabet, Secrets of the 
Popes, Hollow Earth at the End Time. 
Many hard-to-find Hollow Earth books and 
contactee autobiographies here. 
