Redity Spon 
A Consumer’s Guide 
to New Age Hokum 
ECENTLY ON DISPLAY in bookstores throughout America was a flashy paperback 
entitled Somebody Else Is On the Moon. The cover depicts an astronaut coming upon 
huge tracks in the lunar soil and pipes sticking out of a crater. “For 200 years 
astronomers have suspected — now we know!”’ proclaims the blurb. “Incredible proof 
of an alien race on the moon! The evidence: Immense mechanical rigs, some over a 
mile long. Lights, flares, vehicle tracks, towers, pipes, conduits.’’ 
To the connoisseur of crank literature, this book 
is a delight. It is the rambling narrative of how 
author George H. Leonard, a retired public health 
official, has identified amazing things in photographs 
of the moon that he gets by mail order from NASA. 
(NASA, of course, is part of a governmental con- 
spiracy to cover up Leonard’s findings. The only 
reason the Apollo astronauts visited the moon 
was to study its inhabitants, and everything else is 
a government hoax that “dwarfs Watergate.’’) 
The chapters of Leonard’s book bear such titles as 
“A Motor As Big As the Bronx’’ and “Service Sta- 
tion in a Crater?”’ Thirty-five pages of moon 
photos illustrate with circles and arrows the 
marvels discussed in the text. But the circles and 
arrows point to nothing unusual at all. The photos 
are just ordinary moonscapes of hills, plains, 
and craters. 
The most interesting thing about Somebody Else Is 
On the Moon, however, is not its contents. It’s the 
publisher’s marketing strategy. The book was placed 
in bookstores among the offerings for “New Age”’ 
readers, including those like myself who like to 
think that we are in the vanguard, exploring im- 
portant new ideas and philosophies. There, in fact, 
is where all sorts of crank literature has migrated. 
That’s where it sells. 
In times past, purveyors of fringe and paranormal 
ideas bitterly charged that they were being cen- 
sored out of print by conspiracies of publishers 
and orthodox scientists. No more; all holds are 
off. Firewalking, sunken continents, astrology, 
psychokinetic spoon-bending, psychic readings, 
channelling, aura reading, remote viewing, psychic 
archaeology, scores of dubious holistic health 
systems, and a thousand other paranormal ideas 
have been getting a hearing like never before. 
And my generation, the supposedly ‘‘skeptical’’ 
generation, is eating it up. 
The very abundance of such claims has made the 
“Search,”’ as | like to call it, more difficult than 
ever. This Search is a tradition in my family. My 
grandfather was a devout Spiritualist. He held 
seances with the great mediums of the day — 
Arthur Ford, Eileen Garrett — and he took my 
mother and father to all the main Spiritualist camps. 
My parents were somewhat more skeptical. My 
father joined the American Society for Psychical 
Research and became one of its directors, investi- 
gating haunted houses, poltergeists, clairvoyants, 
and telepaths long before such investigators were 
guaranteed a spot on the Merv Griffin Show. Up in 
the attic we still have a set of fake spirit photo- 
graphs a medium tried to pass off on him; spirit 
If there were a Consumers’ Union for the paranormal marketplace, Alan MacRobert could be its Ralph Nader. As the heir to three 
generations of Spiritualism and psychic investigation, he’s learned to harmonize the dual traits of fascination with the unknown 
and healthy, uncompromising skepticism. His article is a guided, grounded tour through the carnival of paranormal claims. MacRobert 
is an editor at Sky and Telescope magazine, and a former editor at Vermont Vanguard Press, where a substantially different 
version of this article originally appeared. 
—TS. 
187 
