General configuration of a typical 
phosphorescent wheel. 
Key to Phenomena 
Long, Parallel, Stationary 
Phosphorescent Bands 
Moving, Parallel Bands 
of Phosphorescence 
Aerial Phosphorescent 
Displays 
Marine Phosphorescent 
Wheels 
Expanding 
Phosphorescent Rings 
Phosphorescent 
Patches Moving 
in Circles 
Phosphorescent 
Spinning Crescents 
Zigzag Phosphorescent 
Flashes 
White Water or 
Milky Sea 
Radar-Stimulated 
Phosphorescent 
Displays 
Te Lapa: 
Underwater Lighting 
Moving, V-Shaped 
Phosphorescent 
Displays 
Colored Rays 
Emanating from Ships 
Radar Detection 
of Phosphorescence 
Marine Phosphorescent 
Displays (GLW) 
Ships that ply the Indian Ocean, particularly the waters leading to 
the oil-sodden lands around the Persian Gulf, frequently encoun- 
ter dazzling phosphorescent seas. As Kipling described it, the ship’s 
wake is “a welt of light that holds the hot sky tame.” Huge globes 
of light rise from the depths and burst on the surface. Wavetops 
sparkle, porpoises resemble luminous torpedoes, and broad geo- 
metrically precise corridors of light stretch from horizon to 
horizon. Buckets lowered into these glowing seas prove that marine 
organisms seer to cause most of the phosphorescent displays. 
Phosphorescent ship wakes are mundane and unimpressive com- 
pared to the vast rotating wheels of light and the other fantastic 
luminescent displays encountered from the Persian Gulf, across 
the Indian Ocean, and into the South China Sea. Ridiculed as wild 
sailors’ tales for centuries, modern ships have reported scores of 
bona fide geometrical displays. Mariners tell of great spoke-like 
bands of light seemingly spinning about some distant hub. Occa- 
sionally several wheels will overlap, while simultaneously turning 
in clockwise or counterclockwise senses, creating a vast tableau of 
moving spokes miles wide. Expanding rings of light and bright 
whirling crescents (the latter radar-stimulated) may also decorate 
the ocean surface. Crews that see these fantastic apparitions do 
not soon forget them. Scientists, alas, have generally ignored these 
awe-inspiring apparitions. 
One’s first reaction is to explain the wheels of lights and related 
geometrical displays in terms of marine bioluminescence stimu- 
lated by natural forces that, like the wake of a ship, leave behind 
glowing evidence of their passage. Sound waves emanating from 
submarine disturbances have been the most popular type of distur- 
bance in this explanation. But what combination of seismic waves 
could stimulate overlapping, counterrotating wheels or hundreds 
of spinning phosphorescent crescents? Furthermore, there are 
several well-attested cases where the luminous displays were seen 
in the air well above the sea’s surface. This fact plus the persistence 
of the phenomena (about half an hour) and the complex nature 
of the displays suggest that we look for other stimuli and nonbio- 
logical sources of light. 
The physical forces that create the auroras and the Andes Glow 
may be at work near the ocean’s surface, unlikely as it may seem. 
To illustrate this possibility, the luminous mist seen during some 
low-level auroras closely resembles the aerial phosphorescence seen 
in some marine displays. Some ship captains have, in fact, noted 
the similarities between auroral and marine phosphorescent dis- 
plays. The curious interaction of radar with marine phosphorescence 
is also suggestive. Another potential explanation would use the 
collective behavior of marine bioluminescent organisms. Travelers 
in the tropics, for example, tell amazing accounts of the synchro- 
nized flashing of immense assemblages of fireflies. Could marine 
bioluminescent organisms indulge in similar cooperative action? If 
so, how do they communicate pattern geometries and why? 
Many other questions can be asked about marine phosphorescent 
displays. Why are most concentrated in the Indian Ocean and 
South China Sea when other seas also teem with bioluminescent 
organisms? Where does the mysterious underwater lightning, 
called te Japa by the Polynesians, fit in? Unfortunately only a few 
scientists have deigned to notice this fertile field of research. 
|
4 
