What better place to begin than with 
The End? If there are times when the signs 
of imminent apocalypse seem to loom all 
around, perhaps you can take heart from 
the fact, clearly demonstrated in this sec- 
tion, that people of all cultural persuasions 
have felt the same way throughout re- 
corded history. 
And who better to tell the story of hu- 
manity's long-term flirtation with dooms- 
day than a writer who chooses to live on 
the wrong side of the San Andreas fault? 
Stanley Young, who resides in Venice, 
California, with his wife Janice, is a former 
Commonwealth scholar and modern danc- 
er who now works full-time as a freelance 
writer. He contributes regularly to an 
eclectic assortment of publications, from 
People Magazine to Whole Earth Review, 
and also writes teleplays and books. 
Stanley believes that the end of the world 
will take place “in four years or 
forty thou- 
sand miles, whichever comes first.” 
—T.S. 
8 
EOPLE HAVE ALWAYS PONDERED THE END, SINCE 
the very beginning. Throughout history prophets arise to 
preach doom and gloom, mass movements form proclaiming 
the imminent demise of the planet, groups of believers go up 
to mountaintops to wait out the earthquake/flood/fire/celestial colli- 
sion/whatever. So far, their batting average is zero, and whatever 
differences these prophets display in culture, speech, and dress, 
they certainly share a common and recurring attribute: bad timing. 
Yet these doom-sayers continue to arise and we continue to 
bend an ear to listen to them. Perhaps it is a sublimated death wish, 
the need to extend our own inevitable demise onto the cosmos that 
contains us. More likely, it is simply the need to know the end of 
the tale, as if history were a detective novel and through these pro- 
phecies we are given a chance to peek at the last page. 
~ 
GOOD TIMES, BAD TIMES, END TIMES 
In the Western tradition, born of the Judaeo-Christian heritage, 
the End has always come first. At least one Christian theologian, 
Ernst Kaseman, has argued that apocalypticism “was the mother of 
all Christian theology.” Judging by the phenomenal success of au- 
Harry
S. 
Robin
