The Insiders 
Bankers & Zionists 
What’s the Frequency, 
- 
4 
a 
4 
nN 
e 
\J 
= 
This is the basic scenario maintained by 
the aforementioned John Birch Society 
[395 Concord Ave., Belmont, MA 
02178], enfants terribles of the 1960s 
right wing. The Birchers’ name for the 
conspirators is the “Insiders,” a group 
including not only bankers a /a David 
Rockefeller and Wall Street firms such 
as Lazard Freres, but the top strata of 
diplomats, advisors, and corporate 
heads associated with the Council on 
Foreign Relations (CFR) and the Bilder- 
bergers. 
In the single best exposition of this ba- 
sic theory, None Dare Call It Conspiracy, 
the late Birch author Gary Allen traces 
the roots of the CFR back to secret 
Round Tables formed at the instigation 
of British gold and diamond magnate 
Cecil Rhodes at the turn of the century. 
Overlapping CFR circles is the Bilderberg 
Society, a transatlantic group of the po- 
litical and corporate elite that suppos- 
edly meets in secret once or twice a year 
to discuss the direction of world affairs, 
and to push them towards a One World 
Government. 
The Liberty Lobby’s We/tanschauung, as 
expressed in their weekly tabloid The 
Spotlight [$30/year (weekly) from 300 
Independence Ave. SE, Washington, DC 
20003] (paid circulation over 120,000), 
is identical to the Birchers’ in most re- 
spects with one significant difference: 
the Liberty Lobby adds Zionism to the 
roster of the secret cabals. 
In their 
steady criticism of Israel and their vigor- 
ous support for Revisionist historians 
who argue that most accepted accounts 
of the Jewish Holocaust have been exag- 
gerated, the Liberty Lobby stops short of 
Besides the Insiders and the Zionists, of 
course, there is still the Soviet Union. 
Most conspiracy theorists are not fooled 
one bit by glasnost, and this certainly 
goes for C.B. Baker, whose Youth Action 
News [P.0.Box 312, Alexandria, VA 
22311] is jam-packed with information 
about how the Soviets are frying our 
brains with Extremely Low Frequency 
(ELF) waves and microwaves, as well as 
sneaky weather warfare. 
(Apparently, 
Eugene, Oregon, for reasons unknown, 
has been a particularly hard-hit target of 
microwave zapping. Do the Soviets 
If the Insiders sound identical to leftist 
descriptions of the Ruling Class—it’s 
because they are. Paradoxically, if they 
agree on little else, the far left and the 
far right often share common enemies in 
those such as David Rockefeller who, in 
turn, pass themselves off as defenders 
of the center. The key difference here is 
that the left sees Rockefeller et a/ as the 
logical culmination of capitalist evolu- 
tion, while the right sees them as smoth- 
erers of free enterprise. 
Ironically, both 
may be true. 
The Birch Society’s analysis is the 
most common conspiracy theory on the 
right, and the cover of Allen’s book 
boasts “five million in print!” However, 
the Birchers peaked in popularity in the 
’60s, and more recently another group, 
the Liberty Lobby, has grown in influence 
in conspiracy-spotting circles. [Lany 
Abraham has published a revised and 
updated version of Allen’s book, now 
called Call It Conspiracy, which is avail- 
able for $19.20 postpaid from Double A 
Publications, 18000 Pacific Hwy South, 
Suite 1115, Seattle, WA 98188; 206/ 
243-9115.] 
open anti-Semitism, but clearly plays 
footsie with that milieu. 
In the late ’70s, the Liberty Lobby 
made much of apparent hanky-panky be- 
tween the Rockefellers, the Mafia, 
Warner Communications, and the Carter 
administration, while the Reagan years 
saw it going after “dual loyalists” in the 
State and Defense departments. 
The 
Spotlight features regular muckraking 
exposés that dovetail nicely into the 
organization’s theories. Perhaps more 
than any other group, the Liberty Lobby 
has been reponsible for publicizing the 
role that the Trilateral Commission has 
played in both Carter’s and Reagan’s ad- 
ministrations. 
know something that we don’t?) This 
distressing news is rendered in tiny six- 
point type in eight-page issues mailed 
out at unpredictable intervals (usually 
twice a year or so). In contrast to some 
conspiratologists who seem intent on 
winning as large an audience as humanly 
possible, Baker warns: “. . 
. our material 
is anti-Communist, anti-Zionist and PRO- 
AMERICAN. 
If you are an America-laster, 
Trilateral-supporter or FOREIGN-POWER- 
LOYALIST, please do not order our mate- 
rial as our intelligence research is for 
LOYAL AMERICANS ONLY.” Please take 
note. 
