San 
Francisco 
Chronicle 
S 
RS 
A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada (1896-1977), a former Indian 
businessman, brought the Krishna Consciousness movement to the U.S. 
in 1965. The movement now has fifty U.S. centers and over 3,000 core 
community members, with an additional 250,000 lay constituents. 
e 
Yogi Bhajan (b. 1929), a well-educated Sikh from Delhi, India, 
moved to Toronto in 1968 and in December of that year settled in 
Los Angeles. 
In 1969 he founded an ashram and the Healthy, 
Happy, Holy Organization (SHO) to teach kundalini yoga and medi- 
TatiOncreere 
For Sikhs, God is self-existent, immortal, immanent, transcen- 
dent, omnipotent, omnipresent, and omniscient. 
He is experi- 
enced through chanting of the Name of God, which in the original 
language is “Sat Nam” (God’s name is Truth) or “Wahe Guru” 
(Experience of Infinite Wisdom). Chanting God’s name is fre- 
quently done by repeating the mantra, “Ek Ong Kar Nam Siri Wha 
Guru” (“There is One Creator and one creation. 
Truth is His 
name. 
He is all Great. 
He is all Wisdom.”) Members normally 
rise before sunrise each day to chant God’s name and meditate. 
While not required to do so, individuals associated with the 
Sikh Dharma are encouraged to seek formal initiation and join the 
Khalsa, the Brotherhood of the Pure Ones, a fellowship begun by 
Guru Gobind Singh. New members are baptized with sweetened 
water stirred with a sword. Members of the Sikh Dharma are 
then required to keep the traditional practices introduced by Guru 
Gobind Singh that became the distinguishing marks of the Sikh 
community, known popularly as the five “k’s.” 
All hair, including 
the beard, is kept uncut (kesh) and tied on top of the head in a 
turban. The hair is kept neat with a comb (kangha). 
Sikhs wear 
special underwear (kachera) originally designed to allow freedom 
of movement in battle; a steel bracelet (kara) symbolic of an in- 
separable bond with God; and a dagger (kirpan) symbolic of a 
commitment to defend truth, righteousness, and those who can- 
not defend themselves. 
Ministers in the Sikh Dharma also normally wear a long 
hemmed knee-length skirt (kurta) and special pants which are 
loose at the waist and tight around the legs (chudidas). Both are 
solid white as is the turban. 
Health is of prime concern within the Sikh Dharma. 
Natural 
foods are preferred and fish, meat, alcohol, and drugs prohibited. 
A number of members have opened health food restaurants and 
groceries. Members also prefer natural methods of healing. 
The Sikh Dharma observes the traditional holidays of 
Sikhism, especially Balsakhi Day, the birthday of the Khalsa 
(April); the Martyrdom days of Guru Tegh Bhadus (November) and 
Guru Arjun Dev (May); and the birthdays of the ten gurus. 
Beyond what is normally considered orthodox Sikhism, Yogi 
Bhajan also teaches kundalini, laya and tantric yoga, the tech- 
niques of which he had mastered prior to his coming to the 
United States. 
Kundalini yoga consists of exercises which stimu- 
late and control the energy within man which expands the capac- 
ity of the self. Laya yoga is the technique of altering conscious- 
ness by sound and rhythm. Tantric yoga is practiced by couples 
who share energies and consciousness. 
It must be done in the 
presence of a master or Mahan Tantric (Yogi Bhajan)... 
. 
The Sikh Dharma has received some attention from the anti- 
cult movement, and there have been a few deprogramming at- 
tempts. One ex-member left and accused Yogi Bhajan of sexual 
involvement with several of his staff members, but there was no 
verification of the charges. Controversy has primarily been fo- 
cused in other areas. 
Tension developed during the mid-1970s as members of the 
Sikh Dharma began to interact with the older American Sikh com- 
munity. 
Sikh Dharma members complained that the Punjabi 
Sikhs had become lax in their discipline, especially in their adher- 
ence to the five “k’s.” The tension led to an attack on Yogi 
Bhajan and his followers by Dr. Narinder Singh Kapany, editor of 
the influential Sikh Sangar, the magazine of the Sikh Foundation. 
Kapany condemned Bhajan's emphasis upon yoga and his stric- 
tures on diet. Kapany’s criticisms have been echoed by other 
Sikh leaders in both the United States and India. The issues 
have never been resolved, and the two communities have re- 
mained separate. 
Sikh Dharma members have encountered constant conflict 
over their turbans. 
As early as 1971, Thomas C. Costello faced a 
military court-martial for refusing to either cut his hair or remove 
his turban. 
His case led to a change in Army regulations granting 
permission for Sikhs to wear turbans. As recently as 1984, Karta 
Kaur Khalsa was threatened with loss of her teaching certificate 
because she refused to take off her turban during classes. 
In 
1985 the Oregon Supreme Court declared the law under which 
she was suspended to be unconstitutional. 
While these tensions remain, the Sikh Dharma has been 
praised highly for its drug rehabilitation program, and Akal 
Security, a security guard business formed by a group of mem- 
bers in New Mexico, created in no small part out of the image of 
the fierce Sikh warrior, has been highly sought for its 
services. 
—Encyclopedic Handbook of Cults in America 
The Encyclopedia of 
American Religions 
(Second Edition) 
J. Gordon Melton 
1987; 914 pp. 
$165 
1988 Supplement 
$80 
Both postpaid from: 
Gale Research 
Attn: Customer Service 
Book Tower, Dept. 77748 
Detroit, MI 48277-0748 
800/223-4253 
92 
Biographical Dictionary 
of American Cult 
and Sect Leaders 
Encyclopedic Handbook 
of Cults in America 
J. Gordon Melton 
J. Gordon Melton 
1986; 272 pp. 
1986; 354 pp. 
$26.99 postpaid 
$41.95 postpaid 
oe 
Both from: 
LL” 
Garland Publishing 
Attn: Order Dept. 
136 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10016 
212/686-7492 
