oy 
A CRITICAL LOOK AT CRITICAL MASS 
by Maureen O’Hara 
Illustrated by Kathleen O’Neill 
THE HUNDREDTH MONKEY provides us with a case study through which to examine 
the deterioration in the quality of thought and scholarship among those people who par- 
ticipate in what has become known as the “New Age” or “human potential” community. I 
believe that this deterioration may ultimately result (if it has not already) in discrediting 
humanistic science altogether, leaving us with nothing more than faddism and a rag-bag of 
pseudoreligious and pseudoscientific superstition. Because I believe that a humanistic view 
of persons and their communities has never been more necessary in order to counter- 
balance the galloping alienation in human life, I view this trend toward superstition with 
real alarm. 
Lyall Watson does not tell us the monkey tale in _ time to time. Evidence of this exists everywhere. 
his book Lifetide because he is interested in studies 
Perhaps this monkey story and the rapidity with 
of behavior propagation in macaques — he is 
which it passed from pseudoscientific speculation, 
merely using the story to support his conviction 
through dubious editing, word of mouth trans- 
about human consciousness, that when a certain 
mission by superstars in the human potential 
“critical mass” of people believe in something, 
movement, into popular New-Age superstition, 
suddenly the idea becomes true for everyone. 
makes a far better case study of the very pheno- 
There can be no doubt that ideas and attitudes 
© menon that the monkey research putatively 
can spread rapidly through a community from 
demonstrates. 
Inspired in the 1960s by the works of Abraham Maslow, Carl Rogers, Gregory Bateson, and others, Maureen O’Hara cut short a 
career in biology and became a humanistic psychologist in order to participate in “the creation of a precise humanistic science” 
with the goal of “a humane global collective, composed of free, responsible, rational people capable of purposeful action, critical 
thought, creativity, and individual conscience.” Today she is alarmed by the way her profession, intertwined as it is with the 
human potential and New Age communities, has embraced the trappings of pseudoscience and become prone to accept and 
amplify “bad myths,” of which the Hundredth Monkey story is only one example. As a specialist in mass psychology and cross- 
cultural phenomena, she is particularly qualified to comment on the “critical mass” concept idealized in the Hundredth Monkey 
myth, and to provide us with an insider’s view of the reasons behind the rise of superstition in humanistic science. 
—Ted Schultz 
182 
