a game to frighten their mother, but, under the direction of 
the older Leah, had quickly developed into a lucrative 
scam. “My sister Katie was the first to observe that by 
swishing her fingers she could produce certain noises with 
her knuckles and joints, and that the same effect could be 
made with her toes. Finding that we could make raps 
with our feet—first with one foot and then both—we 
practised until we could do this easily when the room was 
dark.” Two weeks earlier Kate had confessed: “Spiritual- 
ism is a humbug from beginning to end. It is the greatest 
humbug of the century.” 
Emest R. Hilgard, professor emeritus of psychology at 
Stanford University, begins his book Divided Conscious- 
ness: Multiple Controls in Human Thought and Action 
with these words: “The unity of consciousness is illusory. 
Man does more than one thing at a time—all the time— 
and the conscious representation of these actions is never 
complete.” In other words, conscious attention can be di- 
rected toward one task while the mind simultaneously 
processes others. Everyone has had the experience of 
daydreaming while reading a book, only to discover that 
he cannot remember any of the page he’s just read (yet, as 
we shall see, the information may indeed be stored some- 
where deep in his mind). Likewise, a pianist may hold a 
conversation while playing a complex piece of music. 
These are obvious and somewhat superficial examples, 
but Hilgard and others have found that this subdivision of 
mental functioning, known as divided consciousness, runs 
very deep, and operates in ways that are quite extraordi- 
nary. 
of you that is hearing my voice and processing the informa- 
tion. 
If there is, | should like the index finger of your right 
hand to rise as a Sign that this is the case.” 
To the surprise of the instructor, as well as the class, the 
finger rose! The subject immediately said, “Please restore my 
hearing so you can tell me what you did. | felt my finger rise 
in a way that was not a spontaneous twitch, so you must have 
done something to make it rise, and | want to know what you 
did.” 
e 
The subject of this informal experiment was a highly 
hypnotizable student whose story telling was of a high order 
whether he was hypnotized or not. Although | report a story 
told under hypnosis, he was quite capable of telling stories of 
essentially the same vividness when not hypnotized. 
He came 
to our attention because, with someone else, under hypnosis 
he had told a story of early nineteenth century England with 
such clarity and verisimilitude that he convinced those who 
heard him—himself as well—that it must have been a case of 
regression to a prior experience. 
Only careful depth interview- 
ing proved that he had forgotten memories sufficient to supply 
the details he had recounted so that the reincarnation concept 
was not necessary... 
Inquiry by the hidden observer technique revealed that 
there was a part of him doing the planning, more like a stage 
director providing the promptings for the hypnotized part, the 
ACtONc 
= 
The planning aspect in the waking state appears to hold a 
much larger part of the story telling. Here we find an addi- 
tional complexity, for we have little difference in the overt ex- 
Through 
hypnosis, 
psycholo- 
gists have 
been able 
to explore 
the extra- 
ordinary 
levels of 
personality 
associated 
with chan- 
neling and 
other exot- 
ic pheno- 
mena. 
NS 
SS 
tas 
" 
INNS 
: 
PASSES 
CS 
SS 
Around the turn of the century, psychologist Pierre 
Janet assigned to his hypnotized subject Lucy the task of 
writing a letter posthypnotically (that is, after she had 
emerged from hypnosis into normal waking conscious- 
ness). Once awake, her hand dutifully wrote out a short 
letter while, quite unawares, she carried on a casual con- 
versation. When Janet showed the letter to Lucy, she de- 
nied having written it, preferring to believe that the doctor 
had faked her signature. In similar experiments by C.T. 
Burnett in the 1920s, subjects performed posthypnotic 
periences while creating in hypnosis and creating in the wak- 
ing state, but we may have a concealed helper when the story 
is being created in hypnosis. Jesamyn West believes that 
much that she writes comes out of her stored memories, even 
though she does not model her characters after real people. 
“The bits and pieces you remember should fall down into your 
unconscious and become compost 
. 
. 
. So, for me, the thing 
to do in writing is to ask myself questions, not to tell myself 
answers.” 
Does she perhaps have a hidden observer to or- 
ganize the material for her? 
e 
[tis important to note that the secondary or hidden per- 
sonality can sometimes be more “normal,” better adjusted, 
healthier than the primary personality. 
Typically, the secon- 
dary personality has the whole set of memories, and therapy 
is directed to bringing about an integration based on it rather 
than on the typical personality that at first presents itself as 
the primary one. 
Divided Consciousness 
Multiple Controls in Thought and Action 
Ernest R. Hilgard 
1986; 313 pp. 
$20.95 
Postpaid from: 
John Wiley and Sons 
Eastern Distribution Center 
One Wiley Drive 
Somerset, NJ 08875 
212/850-6418 
