Diffuse Electrical Discharge Phenomena (GLD) 
Aurora-like pillars of light over the Andes. 
Key to Phenomena 
GLD1 
GLD2 
GLD3 
GLD4 
GLD5 
GLD6 
GLD7 
GLD8& 
GLD9 
GLD10 
GLD11 
GLD12 
GLD13 
GLD14 
GLD15 
GLD16 
GLD17 
110 
Mountain-Top Glows 
Intermountain 
Electric Discharges 
Electric Fluids: 
Large-Scale St. 
Elmo’s Fire 
Moving, Surface-Level, 
Electrified 
Light Patches 
Unusual Electric 
Discharge Phenomena 
during Duststorms 
and Snowstorms 
Unusual Manifestations 
of St. Elmo’s Fire 
Luminous 
Aerial Bubbles 
Earthquake Lights 
Volcano Lights 
Tornado Lights 
Whirlwinds of Fire 
and Smoke 
Anomalous Flashes 
Detected by Satellite 
Enhanced Luminosity of 
Rocks and Other Solids 
Luminous Phenomena 
in Water and Ice 
Dazzling Lights in and 
on Clouds 
Luminous Patches 
Moving on 
Cloud Surfaces 
Ground-Level 
Light Flashes 
Everyone is familiar with fast, concentrated discharges of electricity, 
such as lightning. More rare are the slower, more diffuse flows of 
natural electricity. In these, the passage of electrical currents is 
gentle and almost soundless in contrast to the violent thunderbolt. 
Even so, these slow discharges frequently give rise to luminous, 
often strangely beautiful phenomena. 
Slow electrical discharges usually proceed from projections and 
sharp points, such as ship masts, radio antennas, and even human 
fingers held aloft. Pointed structures tend to concentrate electrical 
fields and, if the fields are intense enough, will encourage a slow 
flow of electricity from the point into the surrounding air. When 
these discharges become luminous, they are called St. Elmo’s Fire, 
a well-known bluish electrical glow that occurs on the masts of 
ships at sea. In damp and stormy weather, high voltage power lines 
may exhibit eerie luminous discharges around insulators and other 
structures. These bluish glows are termed “corona discharges. ” 
Reports from ships at sea and mountain-top scientific observatories 
tell of St. Elmo’s Fire in the form of cold lambent flames and auras 
streaming from scientific instruments, guy wires, and even peoples’ 
heads. St. Elmo’s Fire also appears infrequently in snowstorms and 
sandstorms, as the falling and blowing particles transfer electricity 
between the earth and the air like those Wimshurst electrostatic 
machines so common in high school physics laboratories. 
Corona discharge and St. Elmo’s Fire are not particularly myster- 
ious to physicists; they therefore constitute a good starting point 
for a journey into more controversial territory. 
The next stop is a truly spectacular one: the so-called Andes Glow 
or, to be more general, the mountain-top glow. Since many moun- 
tains pierce the atmosphere with sharp projecting surfaces, the 
appearance of slow electrical discharges from their crests is not 
especially surprising. It is the scale of the process that is awe- 
inspiring. The sheets of flame and aurora-like beams of light 
projecting into the stratosphere may be visible for hundreds of 
miles. Where does this mountain electricity go? Into outer space? 
And why are mountaintop glows greatly enhanced during major 
earthquakes? No one has really studied this phenomenon care- 
fully. It is in essence St. Elmo’s Fire on a massive scale. 
On a smaller, less-violent scale, intense electrical storms may create 
ground-level patches or waves of luminous electrical activity that 
may engulf humans in their paths, electrically shocking them or 
wrapping them in a garment of St. Elmo’s Fire. In some ways, 
these surface displays resemble the marine phosphorescent dis- 
plays, particularly the rotating phosphorescent wheels, described 
elsewhere in the Catalog. 
Considerably more mysterious are the glowing, enigmatic, floating 
spheres that observers often compare to toy balloons. These ca- 
vorting softly-lit bubbles are certainly not ball lightning and may 
not even be electrical at all. Whatever they are, modern science has 
paid little attention to them, perhaps because their explanation is 
so difficult and their existence so improbable. 
These subjects bring us to those strange glows, flashes, and 
fireballs seen so often near earthquake epicenters. Earthquake 
lights also take the shapes of auroral beams, mountaintop glows, 
ball lightning, and moving waves of rock luminosity. Since modern 
scientific observations demonstrate that earthquake shock waves 
may penetrate the atmosphere into the ionosphere, it is possible 
these atmospheric disturbances may help create low-conductivity 
