e 
A Phantom Shoe-Chewer has thus far eluded Scottish police 
who have instigated a nationwide search for the heel. The latest 
assault occurred in Musselburgh where the victim was relieved of 
her high heels, then made to stand and watch as the “sole-ful 
snatcher” munched away. 
“It’s all very unusual,” said a policeman who was working the 
case. 
“It seems he takes women’s shoes and proceeds to eat 
them—or at least have a good chew.” 
—INFO Journal 
e 
Human blood seeping from the floors of an elderly couple’s 
home has authorities puzzled in Atlanta, Ga. 
Homicide Detective Steve Cartwright said there is nothing to 
indicate any wrongdoing at the home. 
“It’s an extremely strange situation,” Cartwright said. 
“I’ve 
been on the force 10 years, and I’ve never seen anything like 
this.” 
“| don’t know what the stuff is” said William Winston, 79. 
“My wife is upset because she doesn’t know where it’s coming 
from. Me, I’m not bothered by it because I’m in bad enough 
shape as it is.” 
Minnie Clyde Winston, 77, said she discovered the blood 
shortly before midnight Tuesday after stepping out of the bathtub 
to find the floor covered with blood. 
SOURCE: AP in The Plain Dealer, Cleveland, OH 9/10/87 
—Pursuit 
e 
A boy, ten or twelve years old, was recently found exhausted, 
lying on the towpath, near Johnstown. 
He appeared to be ina 
dying condition, and a physician was immediately sent for, who 
promptly administered a powerful purgative. 
In due time, the 
medicine had the desired effect, and brought from the boy a 
double handful of young crabs! [i.e., crayfish]—real bona fide river 
or brook crabs, with claws, legs, broad tail and all. The mother of 
the boy explained the circumstances by stating that her son was 
in the habit of spending much of his time in the water, and that 
while diving he had swallowed a nest of crab eggs, which had 
hatched in his stomach. 
[Daily Louisville (Ky.) Democrat, August 
12, 1858] 
—Strange 
e 
Broadly speaking, the evidence which | have found shows 
quite clearly that Brewster was well within the truth when he 
spoke of a man at Mauritius who could foretell the arrival of ships 
at the island long before they appeared over the horizon. 
He 
might have gone further, and told how this man could determine, 
by his mysterious gift, whether one ship, or more, was approach- 
ing, and how long it would be before it, or they, came in sight— 
and even state in the same manner, when on board a ship, the 
distance and bearing of the land when it lay a long way below the 
Boris Ermolaevy, one of Russia's 
most imaginative young film 
directors, demonstrates his 
unique talents only to serious 
scientists, among them Ven- 
yamin Pushkin, a psychology 
professor at Moscow University, 
where he started carefully con- 
trolled government testing of the 
psychic as long ago as the early 
1970s. 
—Fate 
appearance, like an extremely attenuated cloud, somewhere near 
the sea-horizon, and he found, by experience, that this heralded 
the advent of a ship. He speaks of the “form” and “colour” of 
such clouds, and of their acquiring “consistency”; but there can 
be little doubt that even when most fully developed this appear- 
ance was far from easy to see. 
—Oddities 
e 
§="Still from his chair of porphyry gaunt Memnon strains his 
lidless eyes / Across the empty land, and cries each yellow morn- 
ing unto thee." 
lf Tennyson, as seems likely, excelled Wilde as a poet, he 
nevertheless showed himself inferior to the author of The Sphinx 
in accuracy when he wrote: ". . 
. from her lips, as morn from 
Memnon, drew Rivers of melodies." 
The sounds which are recorded as having been emitted by 
the famous “vocal statue of Memnon” were neither many nor me- 
lodious. 
Infrequently, but always at sunrise, those who stood 
near it long ago might hear a thin, strident sound, like the break- 
ing of a harp string. That was all—an aimless cry heard at rare 
intervals during a relatively short period of two hundred years, a 
period preceded and followed by many centuries of silence. 
—Enigmas 
e 
In 1900, Greek sponge divers anchored off the island of Anti- 
kythera during a storm located a sunken wreck. The report of 
their initial investigation was enough to bring archaeologists to 
the scene. They determined that the wreck was that of a com- 
mercial vessel, probably Greek, sunk about 65 B.c. while on its 
way to Rome from either Rhodes or Cos. The cargo was mainly 
pieces of sculpture, but from the wreckage they pulled what ap- 
peared to be a badly corroded piece of machinery. The object 
remained merely a curiosity for years until it was studied with 
care by the highly respected academician and historian of science 
Professor Derek de Solla Price. Professor Price decided that the 
device, which had been made with bronze plates and complicated 
gears, had been designed to display the positions of the sun and 
moon, and possibly the planets. According to British astronomer 
Colin Ronan, “It was an instrument that gave the positions of ce- 
visible horizon 
. 
. 
. He had trained himself to see some very faint 
lestial bodies in figures—there were pointers that moved over 
Fate 
Strange Magazine 
Oddities 
Enigmas 
Encyclopedia of 
Jerome Clark, Editor 
Mark Chorvinsky, Editor 
A Book of Unexplained 
Another Book of 
the Strange 
$17 /year 
$14.95 /year 
Facts 
Unexplained Facts 
Daniel Cohen 
(12 issues) from: 
(4 issues) from: 
Rupert T. Gould 
Rupert T. Gould 
1987; 272 pp. 
Fate Subscriptions 
Strange Magazine 
1928, 228 pp. 
1929; 248 pp. 
$3.95 
170 Future Way 
P.O. Box 2246 
OUT OF PRINT 
— 
OUT OF PRINT 
: 
($4.95 postpaid) from: 
Marion, OH 43306 
Rockville, MD 20852 
(Numerous publishers) 
(Numerous publishers) 
Avon Books 
P.O. Box 767 
Dresden, TN 38225 
800/238-0658 
83 
