PROPHECIES THAT FAILED 
In the late ‘60s, Aquarian Agers fully 
expected Atlantis to rise somewhere in 
the Carribean. The trance visions of 
Edgar Cayce (pronounced Kay-see), the 
“sleeping prophet” of 1920s-1940s Amer- 
| 
ica, had included a revelation that “Posei- 
| 
dia will be among the first portions of At- 
lantis to rise again. Expect it in ’68 or 
| 
769. Not so far away!” Strike one. In ~ 
| 
1941, Cayce predicted that “in the next 
few years, land will appear in the Atlantic 
as well as in the Pacific... . New York 
City itself will in the main disappear . . . 
{within] another generation.” Strike two. 
But even “much sooner” than this, “the 
southern portions of Carolina, Georgia, 
these will disappear.” Strike three: Mighty 
Cayce has struck out. 
Modern America’s Seer of State 
Jeanne Dixon has gained fame as “the 
psychic who foresaw President Kennedy’s 
assassination.” Popular folklore (pro- 
moted by Dixon herself) has it that she 
predicted that Kennedy would be shot and 
killed if he went to Dallas, and even spec- 
ified the location of the bullet wounds 
and other details. Actually, her prophecy, 
reported in the May 13, 1956 issue of Pa- 
rade magazine, was much simpler: that a 
Democrat would be elected in 1960, and 
that he would be assassinated or die in of- 
fice, “though not necessarily in his first 
term.” Kennedy, a Democrat, was 
elected in 1960 and assassinated on No- 
vember 22, 1963. 
At first glance, Dixon’s prediction 
seems uncannily accurate—even without 
the details usually attributed to it. But 
consider that Dixon undoubtedly knew 
that whoever was to be elected in 1960 
was heir to the “twenty-year curse” that 
had claimed the lives (by illness or assas- 
sination) of six presidents elected at 
twenty-year intervals, from Harrison in 
1840 to Roosevelt in 1940. (This helps to 
explain Dixon’s forecast, but of course 
the “curse” itself remains a curious phe- 
nomenon.) Further, she had at least a fif- 
ty percent chance of getting the party af- 
filiation right. Whether Dixon’s predic- 
tion was luck or prophecy is perhaps best 
revealed by the fact that, when Kennedy 
was a contender in the Democratic prima- 
ries, she predicted that he wouldn't be the 
man elected! 
Like most psychic forecasters, Dixon 
uses the “‘scattergun’” approach, issuing 
literally thousands of prophecies every 
year. Virtually all of them never come to 
pass, but in hindsight it is sometimes pos- 
sible to pick one out—like the Kennedy 
prediction—that vaguely resembles an ac- 
tual event. For example, in the December 
25, 1979, issue of The Star, a tabloid to 
NORTH 
AMERICA 
1996? 
Gut oF 
Wem ins 
If you live in Nebraska, buy a surfboard. 
As depicted in this map from Jeffrey Goodman’s 
1978 crackpot classic, We Are the Earthquake 
Generation (New York: Seaview), by 1996 the 
North American continent is due for some re- 
modeling (or “earth changes,” as they are 
called in the New Age). Goodman correlated 
the prognostications of “psychics with remark- 
able records of prediction”—including the ubi- 
quitous Edgar Cayce and Nostradamus, as well 
as a team of modern clairvoyants—and came 
up with a timetable for earth changes. Some 
sense of just how “remarkable” the predictive 
powers of Goodman’s psychics are can be de- 
termined now, over ten years since his book 
was written, by examining what is already 
supposed to have happened on the way to the 
new “underwater America”: 
Between 1980 and 1985: 
The Imperial Valley in Southern California 
starts to fill with water. 
Palm Springs is submerged. 
San Diego, Los Angeles, and San Francisco are 
destroyed. 
The California coastline is pushed back to 
Bakersfield, Fresno, and Sacramento. 
A seaway is opened up through central Oregon 
(from west to east) reaching to the Idaho 
border. 
Land rises in the Bering Strait, creating a land 
bridge between Siberia and Alaska. 
The Aleutian Islands begin to disappear as a 
result of volcanic eruption and earthquakes. 
The Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Seaway 
grow larger. 
A major earthquake destroys a large part of 
New York City. 
Land rises off the southeast coast of the 
United States, near Bimini in the Bahamas. 
which Ms. Dixon regularly contributes, 
she made her ‘‘Predictions for the ’80s,” 
hundreds of forecasts about world events 
and famous personalities like Dolly Par- 
ton and Marie Osmond. It’s hard to find 
even one that came true! For instance: In 
1983, “income taxes will be slashed to a 
fraction of their present levels, and across 
the land Americans will stop paying prop 
erty taxes.” In 1985, “first commercial 
use will be made of icebergs, snagged in 
Arctic or Antarctic waters and sailed to 
seaports for water or cooling,” and “the 
era of Fidel will finally come to an end 
when a new government takes over in 
Havana.” In 1987, “startling signals will 
be received from outer space between 
Between 1985 and 1990: 
Major tidal waves and earthquakes severely 
damage India. 
Tidal waves and earthquakes severely damage 
Japan. 
A major eruption of Vesuvius in Italy is 
initiated by a violent earthquake that 
causes damage as far off as France and 
Scandinavia. 
New York City is now completely broken up. 
Land rises in the Atlantic ocean west of 
England. 
Land rises near Gibraltar, creating a land 
bridge between Europe and Africa. 
The Black Sea grows larger as a result of 
shoreline subsidence and earthquakes. 
The earth’s axis of rotation tips a few degrees. 
Think you'll lose any sleep over these 
predictions for 1990-2000?: 
Major sections of the western U.S. fall into the 
sea as the coastline moves eastward in a 
series of violent surges. 
Final coastline 
established in Nebraska and Kansas. 
Major submergence in the Great Lakes area, 
with portions of Wisconsiin, Michigan, and 
Illinois going under watrer. 
Eastern coastal states such as South Carolina 
and New Jersey are inundated by ocean. 
Large quakes and coastal inundations in 
Connecticut and Massachusetts. 
Major submergence in Florida, Louisiana, and 
Texas. 
Major quakes in China. Lake forms west of 
Peking. 
USSR experiences minor coastal inundation 
and earthquakes. 
The return of Jesus Christ, with many helpers. 
Space people visit planet to observe. 
a 
April and May indicating the existence of 
some form of alien life.” In 1988, “‘last- 
ing peace will come to Northern Ireland.” 
In her book, My Life and Prophecies, 
published in 1969, she says “I have seen a 
comet strike our Earth around the middle 
of the 1980s.” 
Dixon likes to claim that she met 
Reagan at a movie-star party in the 50s 
and “I predicted then and there to him 
that one day, he would be sitting behind 
the big desk in the Oval Office,” and even 
Reagan likes to tell it that way. In truth, 
when he was running for governor she 
told him “I don’t see you as President. | 
see you here at an official desk in 
California.” 
1 S. 
