Ancient Wisdom Revived 
It’s taken a century for this book to be written, but here, fi- 
nally, is an objective history of Theosophy. 
Given the colorful 
eccentrics that populate its pages, this story can’t help but be 
entertaining, and it doesn’t shy away from Theosophy’s many 
scandals either, including Blavatsky’s plagiarisms, 
Leadbeater’s penchant for young boys, and the faking of mes- 
sages from the enlightened “Masters” who supposedly commu- 
nicated Theosophy’s seminal teachings. 
But at the same time, 
Ancient Wisdom Revived treats Theosophy’s founders and 
their beliefs with a healthy dose of sympathy, reflecting per- 
haps author Campbell's own former membership in a Theoso- 
phy-related group called the Nature of the Soul. 
Campbell, a professor of religious studies at the University 
of California in Santa Barbara, has done an admirable job of 
providing an historical perspective on the origins, controversies, 
and factionalisms of a nineteenth-century “New Age” movement 
that has had a profound influence on twentieth-century spiritual- 
ity, including the New Age explosion that’s happening right now. 
—T.S. 
e 
Most Theosophists believe that the real founders of the 
Theosophical Society were not Helena Blavatsky and Henry 
Olcott but, on the contrary, mysterious personages called the 
Mahatmas. 
Referred to also as Adepts, Masters of Wisdom, 
Masters of Compassion, and Elder Brothers, the Mahatmas are 
thought to be not spirits but rather highly evolved living men. 
Their chief residence is said to be in Tibet. Madame Blavatsky 
claimed that they were the source of her major writings and 
that she had known them for many years prior to the founding 
of the Society. 
. 
.. Two Masters have been associated promi- 
nently with Theosophy: Koot Hoomi (also spelled Kuthumi) and 
Morya. 
The Masters came to public attention principally through a 
series of letters received by the Anglo-Indian journalist and The- 
osphical Society member A.P. Sinnett. 
. 
. 
. Sinnett received 
more than 100 “Mahatma” letters, most of which were signed 
by “K.H.” Many of them were delivered to Sinnett by Madame 
Blavatsky. Some came through the mails or appeared mysteri- 
ously within another letter, fell suddenly from the ceiling, or ar- 
rived in other marvelous ways. 
Sinnett used the material in the 
letters to write The Occult World and Esoteric Buddhism. The 
books and the phenomena associated with the letters gave 
Theosophy wide publicity both in India and the West, and were 
important to the development of the movement... 
. 
Charles W. Leadbeater, formerly an Anglican priest, later 
converted to Buddhism, and later still a leading light in 
the peculiar strains of Theosophical Catholicism, Freema- 
sonry, and messianism that swept through the T.S. Lead- 
beater and Besant collaborated on a number of celebrated 
clairvoyant investigations of the past lives of T.S. mem- 
bers, molecular chemistry, and the inner planes of con- 
sciousness. 
Alas, it seems that Leadbeater also had a penchant for 
investigating the drawers of young boys left in his spiri- 
tual charge by trusting Theosophical parents, and he was 
eased out of the picture in 1906 after charges were leveled 
that he was schooling his lads in the mystical arts of mas-_.~ 
turbation. Leadbeater’s eclipse was not to last for long, 
however, and within a year or two of Annie Besant’s as- 
cension to T.S. leadership, her clairvoyant collaborator 
was back. His official return precipitated mass resigna- 
tions, including some of the T.S.’s most influential mem- 
bers, such as occult scholars G.R.S. Mead and A.P. Sin- 
nett; but in due time Society membership was to rebound 
with a vengeance. 
26 
Ancient Wisdom Revived 
A History of the Theosophical Movement 
Bruce F. Campbell 
1980; 259 pp. 
$25 
($26.50 postpaid) from: 
University of California Press 
Attn: Order Dept. 
2120 Berkeley Way 
Berkeley, CA 94720 
800/822-6657 
The most thorough investigations by non-Theosophists of 
the Mahatmas and the letters attributed to them have pro- 
duced the conclusions that the letters were fraudulent, that 
Madame Blavatsky wrote most of them and confederates the 
rest, and that the Mahatmas were invented by her... 
. 
Just as Madame Blavatsky’s acknowledged writings have 
not escaped the charge of plagiarism, so, too, the Mahatma 
letters contain some evidence of unattributed borrowing... 
. 
The most embarrassing example of plagiarism 
. 
. 
. was a pas- 
sage from a speech by Henry Kiddle. 
Kiddle, former superin- 
tendent of schools in New York City and a Spiritualist lecturer, 
identified a long passage in [Sinnett’s] The Occult World as 
taken verbatim from one of his own speeches. Though attrib- 
uted by Sinnett to Koot Hoomi, the words had been printed 
nearly a year before publication of Sinnett’s work in the promi- 
nent spiritualist weekly Banner of Light. . 
. 
. 
Blavatsky at first tried to make light of the affair by ridicul- 
ing the Banner of Light. She wrote to Sinnett: “Plagiarize from 
Banner of Light!! That sweet spirits’ slop-basin—the asses!” 
Then Koot Hoomi himself wrote to Sinnett to declare that “1 
have a habit of often quoting, minus quotation marks—from 
the maze of what | get in the countless folios of our Akasic li- 
braries. 
...” Later Sinnett received a second letter from K.H. 
on the subject. This missive declared that the problem had 
arisen because he had been tired and had been inattentive to 
the work of an inexperienced chela to whom the letter had 
been dictated. 
He included what he claimed was the full pas- 
sage as originally dictated. The new version reversed the inten- 
tion of the original passage. 
Sinnett incorporated these expla- 
nations in several subsequent editions of The Occult World, but 
later they, and the offending passage, were dropped entirely. 
In a manner akin to that of today’s most celebrated 
channelers, Besant and Leadbeater enthralled their public 
with clairvoyant revelations that have never been beat for 
colorfulness. When Leadbeater attended Mass, for ex- 
ample, he professed to see with his inner eye the influx of 
grace from heaven, flowing down the arms and body of 
the priest’s vestments in orderly fashion. Such marvels 
were chronicled in his book, Science of the Sacraments 
(1920). Another book, Thought-Forms: A Record of 
Clairvoyant Investigations (1901), co-authored by Lead- 
beater and Besant, included garish color prints of the 
vivid pinks and greens engendered by their colleagues’ 
mental processes. 
In due time, Leadbeater’s nascent interest in the cleri- 
cal profession returned, and he became a founding Arch- 
bishop of the Liberal Catholic Church, an independent 
Catholic denomination whose membership overlapped 
almost entirely with the T.S. Leadbeater and Besant also 
beat the drums for Co-Masonry, an irregular Masonic for- 
mation that admitted women for initiation, much to the 
chagrin of the staid Grand Lodge of England. 
