But the tour de force of the Besant-Leadbeater regime 
was their proclamation of the imminent return of “the 
World Teacher” (also known as Christ, but not to be con- 
fused with Jesus, you understand). In 1909, Leadbeater’s 
penetrating clairvoyance revealed that this returning Great 
Being was due to take over the vehicle of Jiddu Krishna- 
murti, the young Brahmin son of a T.S. employee at the 
Adyar headquarters in India. Leadbeater and Besant pro- 
ceeded to claim Jiddu and his brother as their special 
charges, much to the annoyance of the boys’ father. Long 
drawn-out court battles ensued, and though Besant was 
otherwise a champion of Indian independence, in this case 
English paternalism won out, and on the third appeal 
Krishnamurti was allowed to continue with the special 
training that Leadbeater and Besant could best provide. 
Throughout the 1920s, suspense built in T.S. ranks as 
Krishnamurti’s vehicle became ever more polished in 
preparation for the Second Coming. The Order of the Star 
in the East, an independent organization formed around 
Krishnamurti’s messiahship, grew to 30,000 members at 
its peak. Probably in spite of, rather than because of, his 
acclaimed tutelage, Krishnamurti apparently had a pro- 
found mystical experience in 1922, and began to provide 
a spiritual guidance of sorts to his followers. This culmi- 
nated in 1929 at an Order summer camp attended by thou- 
sands, when he delivered a shocking speech dissolving 
the Order, disowning religious organizations altogether, 
and indicating his primary interest in setting men “abso- 
lutely, unconditionally free.” This came as a rude surprise 
to Besant, Leadbeater, and many in the T.S. who had hung 
all their hopes on the Theosophical messiah. The T.S. 
went into a period of deflation and the clairvoyant duo 
were both dead by the spring of 1934. 
It would be fair to say that the Theosophical Society 
has never been quite the same since, and perhaps this is 
all for the better. The Society presidents who succeeded 
Annie Besant shared little of her verve or chutzpah, and 
the organization settled down to a low-profile role of 
“preserving and realizing the ageless wisdom,” and pro- 
moting “understanding and brotherhood among people of 
all races, nationalities, philosophies, and religions.” This 
it continues to do to this day, through a program of pub- 
lishing, public lectures, and summer conferences and 
camps. 
The deaths of Besant and Leadbeater also marked the 
end of direct T.S. communication with the Masters. The 
void this created in spiritual affairs was rapidly filled by a 
multitude of other claims of contact with the Masters. 
Undoubtedly the most flamboyant of these was promul- 
gated by the “I Am” movement, led by Guy and Edna 
Ballard. Founded in 1934, the movement centered around 
the Ballards’ contact with the “Ascended Masters,” most 
prominent among whom was the Master Saint-Germain; 
but the Theosophical Masters were also included to round 
things out. The Ballards went stumping around the coun- 
try holding meetings full of florid “decrees” in packed 
The enlightened “Masters” of the Theosophical Society, as reinterpreted 
by Guy and Edna Ballard’s “I Am” movement: Morya (left), and Koot 
Hoomi (right). 
auditoriums. Donations poured in and the Ballards lived a 
luxurious lifestyle that foreshadowed a whole generation 
of TV evangelists to come. The bubble burst in late 1939 
with Guy’s death—an unexpected event, since this 
blessed messenger of the Masters was expected to “as- 
cend” himself, not die like a mere human. An indictment 
for numerous counts of mail fraud hit widow Edna and 
son Donald the next year and the mighty “I Am” move- 
ment soon became “I Was,” except for a few die-hard sup- 
porters hidden away in the hills of California. 
Curiously enough, the 1950s saw a new married 
couple, Mark and Elizabeth Clare Prophet, alleging con- 
tact with the same Ascended Masters, using the same 
dated paintings of Saint-Germain, Koot Hoomi, and com- 
pany that graced earlier “I Am” publications, and deliver- 
ing similar purple-hued “decrees” to new throngs of seek- 
ers. Their organization, the Summit Lighthouse (now 
mainly known as the Church Universal and Triumphant), 
weathered Mark’s death and “ascension” in 1973 far bet- 
ter than the “I Am” movement had weathered Guy 
Ballard’s, and is today an active and prolific presence on 
the New Age scene. 
Another independent contact with the Masters was 
maintained by Alice Bailey, who produced at least two 
dozen blue-bound books psychically dictated to her by 
“The Tibetan,” a Master also known as Djwhal Khul (or 
D.K. for short). Alice and her husband, Foster Bailey, had 
been high officials in the American Section of the T.S., 
but left in 1920 after losing a mini-power struggle with 
the T.S. hierarchy led by Annie Besant. Bailey’s trance- 
channeled volumes went into copious detail on the inner 
workings of the universe, and predicted their own “Return 
of the Christ” (not to be confused with Krishnamurti, of 
course). The Baileys founded the Arcane School, a corre- 
spondence course and esoteric lending library, and in- 
spired the creation of an amorphous network of “New 
World Servers” who continue to publicize a non-sectarian 
prayer called “the Great Invocation,” and to encourage 
meditation. Alice Bailey died in 1949. 
Cz 
27 
