by Paul Krassner 
Illustrated by Bill Griffith 
VERYBODY needs a metaphor to deal 
=} with the mystery of life. Personally, I 
used to believe in reincarnation, but that was 
in a previous lifetime. There are those who 
say that even an aborted fetus chooses parents 
who will not carry the pregnancy to term. 
Well, maybe I decided to be born, but I was 
circumcised against my will. And now there 
is another, more subtle form of child abuse, 
described in the June-July ’86 issue of The 
Psychic Reader. The item is about a man 
who took his daughter into a store: 
She got caught stealing a package of cigar- 
ettes. When asked why, she said, “Because 
my father wanted them.” He laughed and 
called her a liar. The truth was the father 
was trying to quit smoking and was emoting 
so much energy of wanting to smoke that 
his daughter went over and picked up the 
cigarettes to give to him. She was not even 
aware that she had stolen the cigarettes. 
The explanation? 
When sensitive family members are affected 
by a strong male, a very important function 
happens: He takes control over the brain. 
When a very angry male climbs into the 
space of a very sensitive wife or a very sen- 
sitive daughter with his energy, it is just as 
bad as striking them physically or violating 
them physically. 
As a child, it was always very important to 
me not to believe in ESP. Adults might con- 
trol many aspects of my life, but they could 
never exert power over what I thought. I 
indulged in the most bizarre fantasies, com- 
pletely confident that they were not able 
to read my mind. 
As an adult, I have tried to keep that mind 
open by maintaining what I consider a 
healthy skepticism. For example, at the 
Berkeley Psychic Institute in Berkeley, 
California, there is a clairvoyant training pro- 
gram — I had predicted there would be — 
and there is a clause in the application 
which states that students may cancel and 
receive full refunds if they do so in writing 
within two weeks. One would think that the 
registrar would have anticipated such 
an occurrence. 
or 
People magazine called Paul Krassner the “father of the underground press,” to which he replied, “I demand a 
blood test.” Recently he’s revived his legendary publication, The Realist (see page 208), which between 1958 and 
1974 delighted the irreverent and outraged the straightlaced. I subscribed to it as a high school student in the late 
’60s, with mutagenic consequences. These days Krassner sandwiches stints as a stand-up comic between bouts of 
writing. If you’ 
ve never seen his act, by all means go if you have the chance. Meanwhile, this is the next best thing. 
—T'S. 
205 
