Rendering of Steven Kilburn's abductors from his hypnotically retrieved 
recollections. 
—Missing Time 
but in the morning found them lying neatly outside the covers on 
top of the bed. 
—Intruders 
e 
Hopkins is convinced that the extraterrestrial genetic experi- 
ment is multifaceted, because some of his male subjects de- 
scribe having been “raped” by female extraterrestrials. One such 
“victim” described his sex-partner as having long black hair, while 
another subject said his extraterrestrial sex-mate had a large bald 
head but was quite voluptuous. 
Hopkins does not even consider the possibility that these 
stories might be sexual dream fantasies, even when they contain 
obvious contradictions. 
For example, one male subject reported 
that after his encounter, his sex partner left the room while “two 
guys . 
. 
. took little spoons and scraped the leftover semen off my 
penis” and put it in a bottle. But later the subject told Hopkins: 
“I'm sterile. They didn’t even get any sperm. | had a vasectomy 
a couple of years before this.” This prompts Hopkins to recall 
that after a previous hypnosis session this subject had said that 
the UFOnauts seemed angry at him. “Now | understood why,” 
Hopkins writes. 
—UFO Abductions 
e 
When Betty and Barney Hill finished their treatment under Dr. 
Simon, the experienced psychiatrist assured them that the UFO- 
abduction tale was simply dream-fantasy. He thereby freed them 
from the cloud of perpetual fear that they might again encounter 
such a potentially terrifying experience. And while Betty Hill sub- 
UFO’s: A Scientific Debate 
In 1969, the American Association for the Advancement 
of Science held a special UFO symposium, chaired by astrono- 
mers Car! Sagan and Thornton Page. The papers delivered at 
that conference are all here, making this the best book to 
read when asking the question “Are UFOs real?” You may not 
come away with a clear answer—half the papers are pro, half 
of them are con, and the authors are all excellent scientists 
—but you'll be well informed on both points of view. 
—T.S. 
e 
ver since radar first probed the atmosphere, scientists 
concerned with the interpretation of the returned signal have 
been intrigued by mysterious echoes, or “angels,” from invis- 
ible targets in the apparently clear atmosphere. The nature of 
these targets as proposed by various investigators falls into 
four categories: (1) surface and airborne targets below the line 
of sight which are brought into view by anomalous propaga- 
tion, (2) insects and birds, (3) direct backscatter from sharp 
gradients or fluctuations in the index of refraction in the clear 
air, and (4) unidentified flying objects (UFO’s). 
158 
sequently claimed that she often saw UFOs in the night sky, nei- 
ther she nor Barney lived in fear of repeated abductions. 
This contrasts sharply with Hopkins’s subjects. For example, 
after one male subject, a New York City policeman, recounted un- 
der hypnosis his “rape” by a gruesome-looking extraterrestrial 
female, he said to Hopkins: 
“It was a dream, wasn’t it, Budd? It 
had to be a dream. 
. 
. This can’t be real, can it?” Hopkins says 
he reassured the subject that it was only a dream, but adds that 
“as | spoke there were tears in his eyes, and in mine, because 
we both knew the truth.” (Emphasis added.) Hopkins admits 
that “every single abductee I've ever worked with is sure that it 
may happen again.” 
How tragic for those who have sought counsel from a person 
with no training in psychotherapy who admits that he has shifted 
his emphasis to “therapeutic considerations—helping the ab- 
ductee deal with fear and uncertainty.” 
In my opinion, that fear 
and uncertainty is the completely unnecessary product of 
Hopkins’s own UFO fantasies, which he unwittingly implants in his 
subjects’ minds. When subjects are under hypnosis and thus in 
an extremely suggestible state of mind, pseudo-memories unwit- 
tingly implanted can last a lifetime. 
—UFO Abductions 
e 
When Strieber was interviewed in the early 1980s by Douglas 
E. Winter for his book on famous authors of horror-fiction, Faces 
of Fear, Strieber vividly described how he was almost killed by a 
sniper in a tower at the University of Texas in July 1966. As re- 
counted by Strieber in Winter’s book, the mad sniper “shot two 
girls in the stomach right behind me. And they were lying there in 
the grass, screaming, begging, pleading for help . 
. 
. One was 
vomiting pieces of herself out of her mouth. And | could smell 
the blood and the odor of stomachs.” 
In Communion, Strieber admits that “for years | have told of 
being present when Charles Whitman went on his shooting spree 
from the tower in 1966. But | wasn’t there.” (Emphasis added.) 
However, shortly after his book was published, Strieber again 
changed his story in an article written for the January/February 
1987 edition of International UFO Reporter (IUR), published by the 
J. Allen Hynek Center for UFO Studies, and once again claimed 
that he was on the scene at the time of the sniper incident. 
—UFO Abductions 
e 
During an off-the-air commercial break in the Oprah Winfrey 
Show, following mention of my offer to pay $10,000 to any FBI- 
confirmed UFO-abductee, Hopkins announced that he would pay 
$20,000 to any FBl-confirmed UFO-abduction victim. 
In view of 
Hopkins’s claim that he is convinced that more than a hundred of 
his subjects are “abductees,” his offer indicates either that he is 
eager to pay out several million dollars, or that he very much 
doubts that an FBI investigation will confirm his claims. 
—UFO Abductions 
e 
Case 1. South-Central U.S., July 17, 1957 
Summary: An Air Force RB-47, equipped with ECM (Elec- 
tronic Countermeasures) gear and manned by six officers, was 
followed for a distance of well over 700 miles and for a time 
period of 1.5 hours, as it flew from Mississippi, through Lou- 
isiana and Texas, and into Oklahoma. The object was, at vari- 
ous times, seen visually by the cockpit crew as an intensely 
Juminous light, followed by ground-radar, and detected on ECM 
monitoring gear aboard the RB-47. Of special interest in this 
case are several instances of simultaneous appearances and 
disappearances on all three physically distinct “channels,” 
and a rapidity of maneuvers beyond prior experience of the air- 
crew. 
UFO's: A Scientific Debate 
Carl Sagan & Thornton Page, Editors 
1974; 344 pp. 
$7.95 
postpaid from: 
W. W. Norton 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10110 
s
