AIL. I’M JOHN. ...WE ARE TAKEN TO FIND 
ye have investigations. We sense your vibrational 
condition as such and have familiarity with it.” 
As described in her phenomenal best seller Out on a Limb, 
so began actress-turned-occultist Shirley MacLaine’s first 
session with “John,” one of the disembodied entities that 
speaks through “channel” Kevin Ryerson—and so began 
1980s America’s infatuation with the mysterious phenom- 
enon called “channeling.” 
Channeling believers already formed a growing sub- 
culture before Shirley, to be sure. Back in the 1960s, the 
resurgence of interest in all things paranormal had in- 
cluded a renewed enthusiasm for a fellow named Edgar 
Cayce, whom biographer Jess Stearn dubbed “the sleep- 
ing prophet.” Between 1910 and 1945, when he died, 
Cayce, an otherwise ordinary man from Kentucky, gave 
tens of thousands of “psychic readings” during which he 
went into a deep trance and advised clients about health, 
reincarnation, and occult philosophy. Cayce’s trance 
teachings never achieved the extraordinary popularity 
during his life that was to be theirs in the ’60s. Through 
them, hundreds of thousands of proto-New Agers became 
acquainted with the concept of “trance channeling.” 
Then, in the early 1970s, a strange volume called The 
Seth Material appeared. Channeled by an Elmira, New 
York, novelist named Jane Roberts, the book was the 
reading public’s introduction to “Seth,” “an energy per- 
sonality essence no longer focused in physical reality” 
who over countless millenia had “known many [exis- 
tences], both physical and nonphysical.” For twenty-one 
years, until Jane died in 1984, Seth expounded a complex 
and arcane cosmology that explained individual and 
group consciousness, the nature of time and space, and 
the self-creation of reality. 
Jane Roberts’ Seth books rode 
the cresting New Age wave to become best sellers; over a 
dozen have been published in the series to date, and the 
notes she left behind insure that there will be more. 
It was thus into a New Age already receptive to the idea 
of channeling that Shirley MacLaine’s Out on a Limb en- 
tered in 1983. When the TV-movie version of the book ap- 
peared in 1987, “channeling” quickly became a household 
word. Channeling sessions filtered into the middle class 
like a 1980s metaphysical version of the Tupperware party. 
Channeling is “the process in which a person [the 
‘channel’] transmits messages from a presumed discarnate 
source external to his or her consciousness [the ‘entity’],” 
to use the definition of William Kautz of the Center for 
Applied Intuition in San Francisco. Perhaps he should 
have left out the adjective “discarnate,” since some chan- 
nels (including the psychic spoon-bender Uri Geller) 
claim to have received communications from outer-space 
entities who presumably do have bodies, though they may 
be aboard spaceships or inhabiting other planets. 
As the authors of the current spate of channeling 
books are quick to point out, channeling is an ancient phe- 
nomenon, as old as religion. The Bible itself is said to be 
“inspired by God’—channeled, in other words—and in- 
stances of channeling are described in its pages. Other re- 
ligious books, for example the Koran and the Book of 
Observing the phenomenon of “channeling” can be an eerie experience. As the other-worldly personality takes possession, the 
“channel’s” facial expressions, gestures, and manner of speaking change radically, and you’ 
re faced with an undeniably extraordi- 
nary occurrence. But unless you're prepared to accept the face-value reality of alien, ultradimensional entities who happily commu- 
nicate through anybody who takes a channeling workshop and who talk like characters from a Grade-B New Age morality play, 
you're going to be mighty disappointed with the scanty information available on the subject. The gosh-wow channeling books just 
didn’t do it for me, so I decided to dig a little deeper. Here’s the result, which might be called “An Objective Primer of Channeling.” 
04 
—TS. 
