Investigating the Unexplained 
Some people consider “debunkers” to be party poopers, 
out to spoil their favorite mysteries. 
For them | recommend 
Melvin Harris, who proves that mystery-solving can be just as 
much fun as the best of the pro-paranormal books. 
In the 
course of his work as a writer, broadcaster, and researcher for 
the BBC, Harris has investigated the Amityville horror, strange 
disappearances, psychic detectives (including Robert Lees, 
who “solved” the Jack the Ripper case), Nostradamus and 
other prophets, and the regiment of angels supposedly seen 
by thousands of World War | Allied soldiers. 
There’s perhaps 
no better demonstration that it’s impossible to take the won- 
der out of life than Harris’ discussion of hypnotic past-life re- 
gression, in which he replaces a false mystery with a genuine 
one: cryptomnesia. 
It’s worth the price of the book alone. 
—T.S. 
e 
People have long toyed with the idea that physical laws 
can be set aside by willpower or by specially developed forces 
within the body. This age-old dream has inspired the publicity 
behind a number of stage acts, so much so, that less than a 
century ago audiences were convinced that they were actually 
witnessing “the negation of the iron laws of nature.” 
First to succeed with this deception was the “amazing 
magnetic girl,” Lulu Hurst, also known as the “Georgia Won- 
der.” She was the fourteen-year-old daughter of a Baptist dea- 
con of tiny Cedartown, Tennessee. The public was told that 
her strange powers emerged after a severe electrical storm 
and a spate of poltergeist-style happenings. 
Her public dem- 
onstrations, however, at no time involved the activities of un- 
seen entities. 
In full light, using nothing but her hands, Lulu 
made strong, burly men look like puny weaklings. She pre- 
sented them with a broom-handle or long pole and calmly de- 
fied them to control it against her wishes. 
Investigating 
the Unexplained 
Melvin Harris 
1986; 222 pp. 
$19.95 
($21.95 postpaid) from: 
Prometheus Books 
700 East Amherst St. 
Buffalo, NY 14215 
800/421-0351 
Paranormal? Or parlor tricks? 
In one of her feats, two men grasped the pole at its cen- 
ter using both their hands. 
Lulu then simply placed her open 
palms on either end of the pole, and after a few slight move- 
ments the pole began to twist vigorously up and down, and 
the men found themselves staggering around the platform 
guided by the tiny laughing girl 
Another, visually more spectacular, feat, involved an at- 
tempt by two men to force the pole down onto the stage. The 
men held the pole vertically while Lulu stood away from them, 
nonchalantly stretched out her arm and encircled the pole with 
her open palm. When the word was given the men pushed 
downwards with all their strength. They struggled away until 
the sweat rolled from their faces, but the pole stayed in the air 
with Lulu looking on amused and unruffled! 
ee 
Pseudoscience and the Paranormal 
Terence Hines, a psychologist, begins his book by stating 
that he agrees with paranormalists that their claims should be 
evaluated. And he proceeds to do just that, in an exciting, en- 
lightening, information-dense volume. 
Pseudoscience and the 
Paranormal is essentially a skeptically minded survey of the 
full gamut of pseudoscience: psychic powers, life after death, 
UFOs, ancient astronauts, alternative health practices, and 
much more. Hines crams his pages full of excellent summa- 
ries of unusual ideas, always referring the reader to both the 
pro and con source material. And he doesn’t restrict himself 
to the usual fare—he critiques fad diets, faith healing, psy- 
choanalysis (to Hines, it’s a pseudoscience), and other sub- 
jects often ignored by skeptics. 
Especially enlightening are 
Hines’ discussions of cognitive illusions constructed by the 
mind and the “falsifiable hypothesis” required to scientifically 
evaluate a claim. 
—T.S. 
e 
[Wilson Bryan Key, author of Subliminal Seduction] claims 
that advertisers are making common use of sexually arousing 
patterns and designs embedded in print ads in such a way 
that they are perceived only subliminally unless one looks for 
them carefully. 
He condemns this practice which, naturally, 
advertising agencies deny using. What evidence does Key use 
Pseudoscience and the Paranormal 
A Critical Examination of the Evidence — 
Terence Hines 
pSEU DOSCIENCE 
$16.95 
($18.95 postpaid) from: 
Prometheus Books 
700 East Amherst St. 
Buffalo, NY 14215 
800/421-0351 
1988; 372 pp. 
and the 
PARANORMAL 
<AAAOLE™ howe 
INES 
TERENCE H 
to argue that such embedded sexually arousing stimuli are re- 
ally being used? He can find them everywhere, in almost any 
print ad he looks at. He even found an entire sexual orgy, 
complete with a donkey, in a picture of a plate of clams on a 
Howard Johnson’s restaurant menu. 
The presence of this 
subliminal orgy explained why everyone with him ordered 
clams. 
This is clearly not evidence; it is merely seeing faces 
in the clouds. 
e 
Proponents of reincarnation sometimes claim that indi- 
viduals can speak languages they have not learned in their 
present life. This is said to occur especially under age-regres- 
sion hypnosis. 
S. Thomason, a linguist, has investigated 
three such cases. As far as | know, these are the only three 
such cases to have been investigated by a qualified linguist. 
In the first of the three cases, a hypnotist claimed that one of 
his patients was speaking Bulgarian while hypnotized. The 
hypnotist himself did not know any Bulgarian and apparently 
made the judgment based on the general “sound” of the 
patient’s utterances. 
In fact, the “language” was not only not 
Bulgarian, but wasn’t any language at all. 
It was merely run- 
together sets of syllables that had a Slavic sound. The sec- 
ond case was similar. A patient claimed to be speaking 
Gaelic and to be a fourteenth-century Frenchman. 
Analysis of 
his speech showed that it combined modern French and Latin 
in a hodge-podge. 
Further undermining this patient’s claim to 
regression to a past life are the facts that Gaelic was never 
spoken in France and the patient made many historically incor- 
rect statements about fourteenth-century France while under 
hypnosis. The third case was of a woman who claimed to have 
been an Apache in a previous life. Her speech was almost all 
Hollywood-style pidgin English, for example: 
“He rides ponies 
for white man. 
| no care. 
He [white man] spoil my Dwaytskem 
[her husband]. 
| no like. He scout for white man. | go to 
happy hunting ground.” 
201 
