The Mysterious 
Burning Deat 
by Kevin Kelly 
n certain rare instances, according to some research- 
ers, a human body mysteriously ignites and is largely 
consumed by fire. There are about two hundred re- 
corded cases of this curious demise, and from these 
episodes springs enough of a pattern to allow a general 
description of the phenomenon. , 
“Spontaneous human combustion” (SHC) fries the 
body to a crisp, beginning in the torso and often leaving 
the limbs intact. This contrasts markedly with most burn- 
ing injuries, in which the limbs are likely to be the first to 
sear. The burnt body is reduced to greasy ashes—even 
the bones. There is often no apparent source of flame. 
Usually, though not always, the victim is a “‘no-hoper”: an 
elderly person living alone, or someone with depressed 
spirits. Often, but not always, the victim is an alcoholic. 
Sometimes SHC happens to younger people, but only 
A fire has reduced most of the body to ashes, leaving only 
parts of the lower legs, the left hand, and portions of the skull. 
it was intense enough to burn a hole in the floor, yet little 
damage was done to the surroundings. (Photo: When the 
4 
Impossible Happens) 
rarely to children. The singular effect of this phenomenon 
is the deep internal burning of the body. Human flesh is 
very difficult to ignite and unlikely to continue to burn 
like a wooden log, independent of an external source of 
heat. Tremendous temperatures are needed to set tissue 
on fire, and even crematoriums must use high tempera- 
tures to burn bone. Imagine what it would take to cause a 
T-bone steak to disintegrate on a grill. 
Perhaps less notice would be paid to these odd inci- 
dents of SHC were it not for the equally odd circumstance 
that flammable objects outside the burned area, even just 
inches away, are untouched by fire. A victim lying in bed 
might be found reduced to a lump of smelly soot burnt 
halfway through the mattress, yet the sheet above the 
body might not be singed. 
Naturally the people who hunt down stories of SHC 
and compile them into books can’t help proposing specu- 
lative theories. The current favorite says that this selec- 
tive, intense burning is similar to what might be expected 
from a sudden localized microwave burst, which would 
cook watery (especially alcohol-permeated) flesh without 
marring cloth. But since an external source of micro- 
waves is no more evident in cases of SHC than a source 
of flames, a shaky logic prevails: Ball lightning is sug- 
gested as the culprit, replacing one mystery with another. 
I have no reason to believe in spontaneous human 
combustion other than the evidence of meager second- 
hand reports and these photographs found in books. (The 
most complete report is an out-of-print paperback called 
Fire From Heaven by Michael Harrison, 1976; Sidgwick 
and Jackson, London.) 
For the moment I’ file SHC under “unexplained, but 
not inexplicable.” And you? 
Kevin Kelly is the editor of Whole Earth Review (see p. 224) 
and the general overseer around Point Foundation, the source of 
all the Whole Earth Catalogs, including the one you’ 
re reading 
now. Kevin got all fired up over spontaneous human combustion 
after reading about it in Reader’s Digest’s Mysteries of the Un- 
explained (see pp. 82, 84), and dug a little deeper to bring you 
this grisly but fascinating collection of images. 
—TS. 
|
|
||
