The Hollow Earth 
In 1818, U.S. Infantry Captain Jonn Cleves Symmes, a 
hero of the War of 1812, announced his revolutionary the- 
ory that the earth is a hollow shell containing four addition- 
al concentric spheres, all accessible via polar openings 
thousands of miles across. Symmes proposed to lead an 
expedition to the “warm and rich land, stocked with thrifty 
vegetables and animals” that lay beyond the frozen North, 
inside the earth. 
In 1828, at the urging of Symmes'’s fol- 
lower Jeremiah Reynolds, Congress actually approved the 
plan. The secretaries of the Navy and Treasury prepared 
three ships for the adventure, but the newly elected Presi- 
dent Andrew Jackson put an end to the project. 
If Symmes’s ideas failed to inspire serious scientific in- 
vestigation, they did inspire works of fiction, including 
Edgar Allan Poe’s Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym and 
Manuscript Found in a Bottle. Meanwhile, in 1869 a man 
named Cyrus Teed had a revelation. The earth was hollow 
all right, but we live on the inside. Teed, who formed a reli- 
gion around his theory, traveled around the country gather- 
ing follovers and in 1894 he founded the Koreshan colony 
in Estero, Florida. Teed died in 1908, but the Koreshan 
colony exists to this day. A variation of Teed’s idea, known 
as Hohlweltlehre, or Hollow Earth Doctrine, was widely held 
in Nazi Germany. 
In 1906, William Reed’s contribution to hollow-earth 
theory, The Phantom of the Poles, appeared. Reed dis- 
pensed with Symmes’s idea of concentric spheres, de- 
scribing instead a single hollow globe with polar openings 
and an undiscovered world of continents and seas within. 
He explained that the aurora borealis is nothing more than 
the reflection of forest fires and volcanoes in the earth’s in- 
terior. 
In 1913, Marshall Gardner published A Journey to the 
Earth’s Interior, or Have the Poles Really Been Discov- 
ered, followed in 1920 by an enlarged edition. While Reed 
had proposed that the inner earth is illuminated by sunlight 
penetrating through the polar openings, Gardner believed 
that it contains its own miniature sun, the light from which 
causes the auroras. 
He theorized that Eskimos are 
descended from inner-earth races, and that the mammoths 
found frozen in arctic ice originate there. 
Like Reed, he 
quoted polar explorers’ references to “warm winds,” pol- 
len, and plentiful animal life as proof of habitable lands 
within. 
In 1964 Raymond Bernard’s modestly titled The Hollow 
— 
Explorers glimpse the central sun as they sail through the vast polar entrance into the Hollow Earth. 
—A Journey to the Earth's Interior (1920) 
Earth: The Greatest Geographical Discovery in History ap- 
peared. Borrowing heavily from the works of Reed and 
Gardner, Bernard expanded the theory to include flying sau- 
cers. Ads for the book that appeared at the time asked 
“Why does one find tropical seeds, plants and trees float- 
ing in the fresh water of icebergs? Why do millions of tropi- 
cal birds and animals go farther north in the wintertime?” 
and asserted that “Admiral Byrd led a Navy team into the 
polar opening and came upon this underground region. 
it 
is free of ice and snow, has mountains covered with for- 
ests, lakes, rivers, vegetation and strange animals.” 
Bernard’s book inspired a new generation of hollow-earth- 
ers, and has been kept in print by a succession of publish- 
ers ever since. 
The hollow-earth theory is only one aspect of a more ex- 
tensive tradition of legends about an interconnecting net- 
work of vast caverns under the earth’s continents and 
oceans. The supposed dwelling place of an ancient, ad- 
vanced civilization, this subterranean world is accessible 
only through secret entrances at sacred sites around the 
world. Bruce Walton’s A Guide to the Inner Earth is an 
extensive annotated bibliography of such stories, but be 
forewarned: most of the references are obscure occult 
magazines and books unlikely to be stocked at your local 
library. Walton’s Mount Shasta: Home of the Ancients, on 
the other hand, reprints in full twenty-five hard-to-find ar- 
ticles, most of which describe an ancient colony of Lemuri- 
ans living under California’s Mt. Shasta. Supposedly their 
presence is revealed from time to time when hikers ob- 
serve niysterious lights, encounter strange giants and little 
people, or stumble across unidentifiable structures that 
they cannot later relocate. 
All of the books mentioned here are available from 
Health Research, one of the most eccentric publishing 
houses in the U.S. They offer facsimile editions of ob- 
scure, out-of-copyright books like Reed’s and Gardner’s, 
and they publish books like Walton’s that would never 
make it in the mass market. 
The Geocentric Universe 
Gerardus D. Bouw has a doctorate in astronomy from 
Case Institute of Technology (now Case Western Reserve 
University) in Cleveland, Ohio. He is also a believer in the 
literal truth of the Bible. Bouw’s careful reading of Scrip- 
ture has convinced him (as it has many others in history) 
that the earth is the center of the universe around which 
89 
