pumps. You can purchase a distributorship and get in on 
the ground floor. 
In 1978 and 1979, farmers and investors from all over 
America bought distributorships for a pump motor being 
developed by Stewart Energy Systems of Idaho. Stew- 
art’s motor was essentially a closed-cycle steam engine, 
except that it used freon instead of water as a working 
fluid. Potential investors were shown a working model, 
but it ran off a conventionally fired boiler. It seems that 
inventor Robert Stewart had not yet perfected the heat ex- 
changer that was to draw the energy out of the well water 
by dropping its temperature two or three degrees! Before 
running afoul of the Securities and Exchange Commis- 
sion, Stewart Energy Systems took in over three million 
dollars. 
Had the investors consulted a physicist, they would 
have received some good news and some bad news. The 
good news is that three BTUs (British Thermal Units), the 
amount of energy that would be released by lowering the 
temperature of a pound of water three degrees Fahrenheit, 
could theoretically lift that pound of water more than 
2300 feet. The bad news is that little or none of the three 
BTUs is available to do useful work. 
Heat engines depend on making heat flow. To draw 
energy from the well water, you would have to make heat 
energy from the cold water flow to an even colder body (a 
condenser). How do you cool the condenser? You could 
build a refrigeration unit, but—you’re probably way 
ahead of me—it would take far more energy to run the re- 
frigeration unit than you’d ever get back. 
Ironically, the Stewart motor was identical in principle 
to a perpetual motion scheme considered by the U.S. 
Navy acentury earlier. In about 1882, John Gamgee went 
to the Navy with a proposal for a “zeromotor,” a device 
that would power ships with energy drawn from seawater. 
The essential difference between the Gamgee zeromotor 
and the Stewart motor was that the former used ammonia 
and the latter used freon. The output of both was the 
same: zero.’ 
Jeremiah 33:3 
As mentioned previously, some of the oldest perpetual 
motion schemes involved attempts to make a water wheel 
pump its own water while doing other useful work. This 
dream is not dead. In spite of scoffers and legal battles, a 
Texas inventor tried to develop a “self-contained hydro- 
electric power system.” 
Imagine a 100-gallon water tank atop an 18-foot 
tower. Water from the tank flows down through a coiled 
“amplification unit” into a turbine. The turbine turns a 
generator, which charges a battery pack, which in turn 
powers an AC converter. Water discharged by the turbine 
flows into a self-acting pump, which returns the discharge 
water to the tank without consuming any energy. 
Inventor Arnold Burke of Temple, Texas, began pro- 
moting this system in 1977. Burke claimed his system 
would eventually retail for about $1500 and would pro- 
duce 1500 (later 3000) kilowatt-hours per month. Most 
2. The Gamgee fiasco is described in detail in chapter 10 of 
Ord-Hume’s Perpetual Motion (see review, p. 127). 
system components could be purchased off the shelf. The 
key to the system, the self-acting pump, he claimed he 
had originally invented to drain a gold mine. 
Burke initially got financing for his device from a 
large dairy co-op, but they parted ways after he failed to 
deliver a working model to the co-op’s headquarters. By 
this time, Burke had christened his machine “Jeremiah 
33:3” for the Bible verse—“Call unto me, and I will an- 
swer thee, and shew thee great and mighty things, which 
thou knowest not”—that inspired his invention. He began 
selling distributorships to individuals, especially Bible 
Belt investors as impressed by his piety as by his me- 
chanical ingenuity. The Texas attorney general filed suit 
in the fall of 1979, alleging that Burke and his associates 
had collected $800,000 in licensing fees under false pre- 
tenses. 
The Jeremiah trial, held in Belton, Texas, was report- 
edly a good show. The prosecution called expert witness- 
es who testified that Jeremiah couldn’t possibly do what 
Burke claimed. The defense called a chemistry professor 
from Arizona State University who testified that it could. 
Burke insisted that Jeremiah ran without any external 
power, and the defense fought a motion to have the ma- 
chine examined by a court-appointed expert. They lost. 
On December 19, 1979, Jeremiah was examined by 
engineer David Kehl and Assistant Attorney General Roy 
Smithers. While Kehl was taking Jeremiah’s pulse with 
an electronic stethoscope, Smithers spottec a concealed 
wire leading from the machine’s upper reservoir. It turned 
Using advertising like this, Stewart Energy Systems of Idaho took in 
over three million dollars from farmers before running afoul of the 
Securities and Exchange 
Commission. 
Sey Ae eee youl 
FOR@PR ASTON DEVICES 
AIR RETURN 
FUEL TANK 
BOILER 
\ 
FUEL eS 
| \ 
aia 
sae 
=a 
= il 
RELIEF VALVE 
FUEL PUMP 
SCRUBBER 
THROTTLE 
CONDENSATE RETURN PUMP. 
CONDENSER 
ONE OF THE FARMING COMMUNITY'S 
BIGGEST 
PROBLEMS 
IS THE COST 
OF FUEL 
. STEWART ENERGY SYSTEMS OF IDAHO WILL SOON BE SELLING 
ENGINES TO TRACTOR MANUFACTURES WHICH WILL 
CUT 
THE COST OF 
FUEL TO A FRACTION 
OF THE AMOUNT 
FARMERS 
ARE NOW REQUIRED 
TO PAY TO OPERATE TRACTORS 
WITH CONVENTIONAL 
TYPE INTERNAL 
COMBUSTION ENGINES 
. 
TECHNICAL INFORMATION WILL BE MADE PUBLIC 
AS PATENT WORK IS COMPLETED. 
STEWART ENERGY SYSTEMS OF IDAHO, 
INC. 
739 W. APPLEWAY COEUR D* ALENE, IDAHO 83814 
PH, (208) 667-6411 
