UFO Periodicals 
Circulating through the mails to small but devoted subscrib- 
erships, UFO magazines have been around since the early 50s. 
Most of them have only lasted a few years, but some have en- 
dured for as long as twenty years. That record-holder is MUFON 
UFO Journal, the official publication of the Mutual UFO Network 
and the longest-running UFO periodical in the U.S. The MUFON 
membership includes active researchers who often arrive at the 
scenes of sightings while the grass is still scorched. You can 
read their reports here, as well as offerings from Budd Hopkins, 
William Moore, and others. MUFON also publishes offprints of 
papers delivered at their annual conferences, which are a good 
source of crashed-saucer reports and other UFO esoterica. 
The International UFO Reporter, which also features articles 
by the big guns of the UFO world, is the official publication of the 
J. Allen Hynek Center for UFO Studies, or CUFOS for short. Hy- 
nek, who died in 1986, was the premier “scientific ufologist,” a 
Northwestern University astronomer who was converted from 
skeptic to believer after working for the Air Force as a scientific 
consultant on UFOs from 1948-1968. CUFOS carries on in the 
Hynek tradition, conducting investigations and serving as a clear- 
inghouse and repository for UFO sighting reports. They also pub- 
lish the Journal of UFO Studies and a variety of offprints. 
Unlike the journals mentioned above, UFO (formerly Califor- 
nia UFO) has only been around for a couple of years. 
It’s a bit 
more sensationalistic, and casts its nets a little wider to include 
articles on UFO movies and non-UFO paranormal subjects, as well 
as interviews with UFO personalities. 
Finally, there’s my favorite, the UFO Newsclipping Service, a 
monthly newsletter of twenty jam-packed legal-size pages that 
simply reproduces clippings of UFO sightings culled from the 
world’s newspapers. 
There's something eerily compelling about 
the sheer volume, repetitive similarity, and small-town honesty of 
these back-page reports, sans editorializing, that no polished UFO 
book can equal. 
—T.S. 
e 
On February 7, 1988 at approximately 7:00 p.m., Ed’s wife 
was feeding their dog in the backyard. Suddenly a blue beam ap- 
proximately 28 inches in diameter appeared near her. She called 
for Ed to come out, but he didn’t hear her. Their daughter said 
loudly, “Daddy, Mommie needs you.” As Ed ran to the back 
kitchen door, he picked up his camera. Ed’s wife said the circum- 
ference of the beam was “rotating” fast and leaves were being 
drawn up by this action. When Ed reached the back kitchen door, 
another “blue beam” appeared near the door, blocking and appar- 
ently discouraging Ed from rushing outside to help his wife. (He 
was very cognizant of his prior experiences with the paralysis in- 
MUFON UFO Journal 
International UFO 
Dennis Stacy, Editor 
Reporter 
$25 /year 
Jerome Clark, Editor 
(12 issues) from: 
$25/year 
MUFON UFO Journal 
(6 issues) from: 
International UFO Reporter 
2457 West Peterson Ave. 
Chicago, IL 60659 
103 Oldtowne Road 
Seguin, TX 78155-4099 
Three disputed “UFOs”: 
From top to bottom, 
George Adamski’s 
Venusian scoutcraft, 
Billy Meier’s Pleiadean 
beamship, and “Ed’s” 
Gulf Breeze “unknown 
of great significance.” 
—International 
UFO Reporter 
duced.) Ed made a photo from their kitchen window of this beam, 
with his wife attempting to get past it to enter the back door. 
—MUFON UFO Journal 
e 
After a series of close encounters, a European couple were in 
a Car accident that may result in a ufological coup, according to 
author Budd Hopkins, who’s in contact with the researchers in- 
volved. 
The identity of the couple is not available, but apparently they 
have a history of abduction. Hopkins tells UFO that after the acci- 
dent, the man felt a curious sensation in his head, alerting him to 
something as it fell from his nose. 
He found what’s described as an object “larger than a BB 
and smaller than a pea.” Now in the hands of investigators who 
hope to have it analyzed, the object is thought to be the nasal 
implant the aliens had placed in the man’s head during an abduc- 
tion. 
As a curious sidelight, the couple once reported seeing a 
group of small humanoid aliens standing around their ship, 
dressed identically in plaid shirts and bib overalls. 
—UFO 
e 
The searchers anticipated seeing the wreckage of a plane. 
What they found instead was a large acorn-shaped metallic object 
which appeared to be embedded in a 25- to 30-foot long ditch 
apparently created by the impact. The ditch was several feet 
wide and 7 to 8 feet deep at one end. ... 
“We all assumed it was a plane but when a plane crashes 
there are pieces all over.” He described it as circular in shape 
with a bumper around the radius that bore raised markings that 
reminded him of ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics. The metal, which 
he described as grayish pale gold in color, was crumpled much 
like a deflated beachball. 
“It was a color you just don’t normally 
see,” he says. 
—UFO Newsclipping Service 
UFO 
Vicki Cooper and 
Sherie Stark, Editors 
$18 /year 
(6 issues) from: 
UFO 
1800 S. Robertson Blvd. 
Box 355 
Los Angeles, CA 90035 
UFO Newsclipping 
Service 
Lucius Farish, Editor 
$55/year (12 issues) 
$5/single issue from: 
UFO Newsclipping Service 
Route 1, Box 220 
Plumerville, AR 72127 
163 
STANP
ED
TT
EN 
PSL
ST
