' ¥ 
vi 
SCRUTINIZING 
THE PARANORMAL 
ACCESS TO SKEPTICAL BOOKS AND MAGAZINES 
by Ted Schultz 
SENSATIONALISTIC PARANORMAL CLAIMS sell books and 
magazines. Sober, sensible assessments of those claims 
do not. Consequently, the body of “skeptical” literature 
has remained small, supported by a negligible percentage 
of the reading public’s money. 
Personally, | find the good 
skeptical publications at least as much fun to read as the 
paranormal stuff—usually lots better. The good skeptical 
writers are as fascinated by paranormal claims as the 
credulous journalists, but—unlike the “true believers”—the 
skeptics get to the bottom of things through careful exami- 
nations of history and facts. 
| have found more solutions 
to puzzling anomalies in the few years that | have been 
reading the skeptics than in the considerably greater num- 
ber of years |’ve spent reading the mystery mongers. 
Skeptical writers, scientists, and scholars united for 
the first time in 1976, calling themselves the Committee 
for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranomal 
(CSICOP, known as the “psi-cops” by their detractors). 
They started a journal, the Skeptical Inquirer, which be- 
Science and the Paranormal 
If you just wanted to read one book of skeptical litera- 
ture, this would have to be it. Twenty experts, most of them 
scientists, take the time to study the evidence for various 
paranormal claims within their areas of expertise. Botanist 
Arthur Galston discusses the failures to replicate “plant con- 
sciousness” research published in the sensationalistic Secret 
Life of Plants. Astronomer Carl Sagan examines the Biblically 
inspired catastrophist reinterpretation of solar system history 
proposed in Immanuel! Velikovsky’s Worlds in Collision. Sur- 
geon William Nolen reports on his extensive investigation of 
psychic healing. The magician James “The Amazing” Randi 
demonstrates his duplications of psychic “miracles.” The lyri- 
cal closing chapter by M.I.T. physicist Philip Morrison redirects 
the reader to the genuine fountains of wonder that are the ba- 
sis of all great science. This book is an intelligent, informed 
analysis of some of the most widely held paranormal beliefs, 
and a lesson in critical thinking to boot. 
—T.S. 
e 
As an experienced surgeon | immediately recognized what 
| had previously suspected from viewing the films: These so- 
called operations were simply feats of legerdemain. | man- 
aged to persuade Joe Mercado, one of the best-known psychic 
surgeons, to operate on me, explaining that | had high blood 
pressure (true) and that high blood pressure might be caused 
by kidney disease (also true). He operated on me while | stood 
by the side of the altar in his church (at six foot one | was too 
tall to lie down on the altar on which he operated on most of 
his patients). Looking down on his hands, | could easily see 
as he began the “operation” that he had palmed the intes- 
tines and fat of a small animal. | watched him carefully as he 
pushed against me and it was apparent, both visually and 
came a major vehicle for skeptical writing. In spite of the 
lack of public support, CSICOP took on the job of combat- 
ing what it perceived as a dangerously rising tide of super- 
stition and irrationality, soawned perhaps by a deterioration 
in the quality of education in both science and critical 
thinking. After spending its first ten years addressing the 
claims of disparate paranormalists, CSICOP expanded its 
investigations to include the single most significant threat 
to rationalism today: certain highly organized, powerful 
Christian fundamentalist groups that are exerting consider- 
able economic and political pressure in order to compro- 
mise science education in public schools. And more re- 
cently, it’s also set its sights on the many absurdities that 
congregate under the banner of the “New Age.” 
Many paranormalists, Bible scientists, and New Agers 
would like to see CSICOP wither up and fade away. But 
what fun would that be? Instead, | look forward to seeing 
this feisty bunch persevere, like a David against a Goliath, 
in their battle against unreason. 
from the way his hands felt as they pressed on my abdominal 
musculature, that he had not penetrated my abdominal wall. 
When he “removed” the fatty tissue, he held it up for all the 
spectators to see and said, “Evil tissue.” He immediately 
tossed it into a can of flaming alcohol kept behind the altar. 
e 
Next Gauquelin placed an advertisement in a Paris news- 
paper offering: “Completely Free! Your ultra-personal horo- 
scope; a ten page document. Take advantage of this unique 
opportunity. Send name, address, date and birthplace... 
” 
There were about 150 replies. To each correspondent 
Gauquelin sent the same horoscope—the one he had received 
for Dr. Petiot. With each he sent a self-addressed envelope 
and questionnaire asking about the accuracy of the reading. 
Ninety-four percent of the respondents said they recognized 
themselves (that is, they said they were accurately portrayed 
in the horoscope of a man who murdered several dozen people 
and dissolved their bodies in quicklime), and for 90 percent 
this positive opinion was shared by their families and friends. 
Science and the Paranormal 
George O. Abell 
and Barry Singer 
1981, 1986; 432 pp. 
$12.95 
postpaid from: 
Charles Scribner's Sons 
Macmillan Order Dept. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
800/257-5755 
197 
