o 
~vearnitiita 
wg 
ye 
Rojcewicz says. “Invariably they are dressed in 
black clothes that appear either neatly pressed or 
like they haven’t been ironed in weeks. They cus- 
tomarily come in threes, often arriving or depart- 
ing in black Cadillacs or other large, dark-colored 
sedans.” 
One anonymous source told Rojcewicz of an 
unsettling encounter that took place in a university 
library reading room. A singular male figure 
dressed in a white shirt, black suit, and a “‘black,- 
Texan-like string-tie” tried to engage the re- 
| 
searcher in a casual conversation about UFOs. “I 
told him I didn’t care much whether they were 
real, physical flying craft or not but that I found 
stories about them interesting,” said Rojcewicz’s 
source. “Well, I thought the guy was going to 
| 
come unglued! He became highly agitated. ‘Flying 
| 
saucers are the most important fact of the century,’ 
| 
he shouted, ‘and you’re not interested?’” 
Not everyone within the UFO community ac- 
cepts the existence of men in black. “I’ve tried 
everything I know in the last thirty years to get 
them interested in me, without a nibble,” says 
James Moseley, who publishes the irreverent and 
iconoclastic broadsheet Saucer Smear. 
In fact, the likelihood of an MIB encounter 
| 
does not seem to be directly correlated to the in- 
| 
dividual’s degree of involvement with UFOs. But 
| 
if it should happen to you, Rojcewicz offers the 
I 
following advice: “Keep a sense of humor about 
yourself. Don’t get upset or take them too serious- 
ly. In other words, don’t feed the phenomenon.” 
Copyright 
1988 by Omni Magazine and reprinted with the 
permission of Omni Publications International Ltd. 
Harry 
S. 
Robins 
UFO 
FOLKLORE 
Qa 
THE 
HUMANOIDS 
by Jerome Clark 
O “HUMANOIDS” PILOT UFOS? Have human 
beings seen them? 
The first widely-publicized affirmative answer to 
these questions appeared in a 1950 best seller, Behind the 
Flying Saucers by Frank Scully. The book alleged, on the 
say-so of what proved to be extremely unreliable infor- 
mants, that spaceships containing diminutive Venusians 
had crashed in the Southwestern desert of the U.S. in 
1948 and 1949. A couple of years later George Adamski, 
whose followers called him “professor” but who might 
more accurately be called a life-long occult hustler, re- 
ported meeting a (normal-sized, handsome-human-look- 
ing) Venusian named Orthon in the California desert; soon 
he was writing books and lecturing on this and subsequent 
contacts with Venusians, Martians, and Saturnians. The 
print was hardly dry in Adamski’s first book (Flying Sau- 
cers Have Landed, with Desmond Leslie, 1953) before 
other, similarly dubious characters, with their own Space 
Brethren buddies, were working the same circuit. 
The newspapers, of course, loved it—and so did UFO 
debunkers, who represented these con men and their 
guileless followers as typical flying-saucer true believers. 
In fact, serious-minded amateurs, who were forming such 
groups as the Aerial Phenomena Research Organization 
(APRO), Civilian Saucer Intelligence (CSI), and the Na- 
tional Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenomena 
(NICAP), did not count Orthon among the possible UFO 
occupants or Adamski among the “reliable witnesses” 
whose testimony they were willing to consider. They 
were appalled by the antics of the “contactees” and spent 
_ much fruitless effort trying to persuade scientists and re- 
porters that they, the serious researchers, were not fruit- 
cakes looking for salvation from outer space, but would- 
be scientists trying to figure out what was behind the UFO 
reports. 
Most of them suspected that what was causing UFO 
reports was extraterrestrial visitation. Among the credible 
sighting reports (and sighters included scientists, military 
and civilian pilots, radar operators, and numerous indi- 
viduals possessing impeccable middle-class credentials) 
were many describing metallic, structured discs, some 
with what were thought to be “portholes.” The clear im- 
plication was that the objects had somebody inside. But 
because the public associated all UFO reports with the 
likes of Scully, Adamski, and others, the “respectable” 
ufologists were all the more chagrined when persons who 
in all other ways seemed like typical UFO witnesses be- 
gan reporting little men. 
Cm 
155 
ART
E
