Psychic 
Observer 
: 
Puritan girl 
‘4 
who had died 
300 years 
housewife 
Pearl Curran 
4 in 1913. In 
the ensuing 
years, 
Patience 
would 
dictate 
poetry and a 
number of 
best-selling 
novels. 
tasks like adding the number of taps the experimenter 
made with his pencil to the page number of an open book, 
again without awareness of what they were doing. These 
and other investigations have demonstrated that automa- 
tisms can be experimentally induced, even though they 
are usually associated with occult phenomena. 
Cartoonists like to caricature the agonized sufferer of 
mental conflict with an angel whispering in one ear and a 
devil in the other. The experiments of Hilgard and others 
have shown that in reality our minds may contain many 
different subdivisions, each operating semi-independently 
and more or less in agreement with the others. But when, 
for whatever reason, one of these divisions is perceived as 
separate from the self, dissociation is said to occur. A be- 
reaved widow, for instance, may temporarily deny that her 
husband has died, dissociating and repressing that part of 
herself that heard and remembers the bad news. Con- 
victed murderers, unable to face their own horrible acts, 
have been known to dissociate the “evil” parts of them- 
selves, charging that externalized “demons” or “voices” 
forced them to carry out their crimes. People suffering 
from multiple-personality disorders are extreme cases of 
the inability to integrate dissociated subpersonalities. 
Beatle George Harrison got sued for rewriting the 
Chiffons’ “He’s So Fine” into “My Sweet Lord.” He was 
the innocent victim of the psychological phenomenon of 
cryptomnesia. So was Helen Keller, the famous blind and 
deaf woman, when she wrote a story called “The Frost 
King.” After it was published in 1892, she was accused 
of plagiarizing Margaret Canby’s “The Frost Fairies,” 
though Helen had no conscious memory of ever reading 
it. But, sure enough, inquiries revealed that Canby’s story 
had been read to her (by touch) in 1888. She was devas- 
tated: “Joy deserted my heart. . 
. 
. I had disgraced myself 
... yet how could it have possibly happened? I racked 
my brain until I was weary to recall anything about the 
frost that I had read before I wrote ‘The Frost King’; but I 
could remember nothing.” 
60 
Cryptomnesia, or “hidden memory,” refers to thoughts 
and ideas that seem new and original, but which are actu- 
ally memories of things that you’ve forgotten you knew. 
The cryptomnesic ideas may be variations on the original 
memories, with details switched around and changed, but 
still recognizable. 
Cryptomnesia is a professional problem for artists like 
George Harrison and Helen Keller; it also plays an impor- 
tant role in past-life regression. In the midst of the hoopla 
surrounding the Bridey Murphy case, the Denver Post de- 
cided to send newsman William J. Barker to Ireland to try 
to find evidence of Bridey’s actual existence. Unfortu- 
nately for reincarnation enthusiasts, careful checking 
failed to turn up anything conclusive. Barker couldn’t lo- 
cate the street Bridey said she lived on, he couldn’t find 
any essays by Bridey’s husband in the Belfast News-Letter 
between 1843 and 1864 (during which time Bridey said 
he was a contributor), and he couldn’t find anyone who 
had heard of the “Morning Jig” that Bridey danced.’ 
Research by reporters from the Chicago American and 
later by writer Melvin Harris finally uncovered the sur- 
prising source of housewife Virginia Tighe’s past-life 
memories. As a teenager in Chicago, Virginia had lived 
across the street from an Irish woman named Mrs. An- 
thony Corkell, who had regaled her with tales about the 
old country. Mrs. Corkell’s maiden name was Bridie 
Murphy! Furthermore, Virginia had been active in high 
school dramatics, at one point memorizing several Irish 
monologues which she learned to deliver with a heavy 
Irish brogue. Finally, the 1893 World’s Columbian Expo- 
sition, staged in Chicago, had featured a life-size Irish Vil- 
lage, with fifteen cottages, a castle tower, and a popula- 
tion of genuine Irish women who danced jigs, spun cloth, 
and made butter. No doubt Virginia had heard stories of 
this exhibition from many of her neighbors and friends 
while growing up in Chicago in the ’20s.* 
Almost every other case of “past-life memory” that 
has been objectively investigated has followed the same 
pattern: the memories, often seemingly quite alien to the 
life experiences of the regressed subject, simply cannot be 
verified by historical research; on the other hand, they fre- 
quently prove to be the result of cryptomnesia. 
In one such case, a young Finnish girl was regressed 
to a previous life as “Dorothy,” an English innkeeper's 
daughter. The hypnotist, Dr. Reima Kampman of the Uni- 
versity of Oulu in Finland, was particularly intrigued by 
the girl’s ability to remember a strange tune she called 
“the summer song,” which she sang in Middle English, a 
language unfamiliar to her. When Dr. Kampman rehyp- 
notized the girl and instructed her to go back to a time 
when she might have seen the words or heard the music 
of the song, she recalled that at age thirteen she had casu- 
ally taken a book from the shelf in her hometown library 
in Finland. She’d absent-mindedly flipped through the 
3“The Truth About Bridey Murphy.” Denver Post, March 11, 
1956. 
“"Yes, Virginia, There Is a Bridey." Time, June 18, 1956. See 
also Melvin Harris’ Investigating the Unexplained (reviewed on 
p. 201). 
