Chris Holtz (a pseudonym), 29, a computer program- 
mer from San Rafael, said he is not normally susceptible 
to the allures of the New Age. But he came here because 
“my job is stressful and I was looking for ways to allevi- 
ate it. The experience was peaceful and calming, without 
distorting your perceptions,” he said. “It’s like waking up 
on a sunny morning during vacation. But I don’t think 
you’re tapping into a greater mind.” Even so, Holtz said 
he planned to return—music to the ears of Adamadama, 
who has begun offering $50 monthly unlimited-use Uni- 
verse of You memberships. “And if this works out, we’re 
expanding throughout the Bay Area,” he said. “Then next 
the world.” 
Adamadama is prospering, but he is small-time com- 
pared to the Werner Erhard of the mind-tech generation: 
Carlsbad’s John-David, who is perhaps the most success- 
ful of the brain builders. I met John-David in the Bodega 
Bay Lodge north of San Francisco, where he was leading 
one of his Total Immersion Intensive seminars. Thirty-six 
people had paid $1,900 each for five days and nights of 
nonstop self-actualization therapy. When I arrived at the 
inn, the group was seated in a semicircle in a toy-strewn 
basement conference room, each person wearing head- 
phones, receiving sounds that were, says John-David, to- 
tally repatterning their neural chemistry. 
John-David is an exuberant, ample-bellied man in his 
late forties with curly brown hair and a broad, sunburned 
face. In his Bermuda shorts, tennis sneakers, yellow- 
striped shirt, and tinted glasses, he looked like a cuddly 
version of Polish premier Wojciech Jaruzelski. Empha- 
sizing the attainment of power and self-worth, John-David 
Clients relax at the Universe of You Studio in Corte Madera, California. 
has conjured up a New Age goulash of psychojargon and 
unique theories of neuroscience. 
John-David’s techniques slightly resemble the Gate- 
way Voyage program of his rival, Robert Monroe, who 
uses the Hemi-Sync Synthesizer to inject tones of two dif- 
ferent frequencies into the left and right brain hemi- 
spheres, thus creating a "binaural beat frequency." This 
purportedly allows the brain to balance itself, heightening 
powers of concentration. But John-David takes Monroe’s 
Hemi-Sync method one step further. He bases his teach- 
ing on his own research and on years spent studying with 
Tibetan lamas. At the core is his belief that intensive ex- 
posure to combinations of sixty sounds—twenty “raw” 
and forty premixed—will trigger the release of specific, 
mind-enhancing neurochemicals. These tones, he says, 
also facilitate the synchronic interplay of both hemi- 
spheres. “We can improve the brain’s pathways to genius 
level,” John-David claims. “We allow you to enhance 
language, memory, and sexuality . 
. 
. and increase or- 
gasms and erections.” 
John-David’s work has taken him from Zanzibar, 
where he performed appendectomies and tonsillectomies 
without a medical license, to Bulgaria, where he studied 
with the accelerated-learning guru Gyorgi Lozanov, and 
to Egypt, where he treated brain-damaged soldiers using 
bells from Tibet. Upon returning to the United States in 
the mid-1970s, he says, “most of my former college pro- 
fessors at Berkeley wanted to commit me. Some of my 
work was illegal. So I backed off.” He decided to work 
strictly as an educator, “using tapes to accelerate the 
learning process.” 
alll 
133 
Randy 
Green/Onyx 
