gave thousands of these people focus to 
their lives. 
Shaver’s long, rambling letter claimed that 
while he was welding‘ he heard voices which 
explained to him how the underground Deros 
were controlling life on the surface of the earth 
through the use of fiendish rays. Palmer re- 
wrote the letter, making a novelette out of it, 
and it was published in the March 1945 issue 
under the title: “I Remember Lemuria... by 
Richard Shaver.” 
omehow the news of Shaver’s 
discovery quickly spread beyond 
science fiction circles and people 
who had never before bought a 
pulp magazine were rushing to 
their local newsstands. The demand for Amazing 
Stories far exceeded the supply and Ziff-Davis 
had to divert paper supplies (remember there 
were still wartime shortages) from other maga- 
zines so they could increase the press run 
of AS. 
“Palmer traveled to Pennsylvania to talk to 
Shaver?’ Howard Brown later recalled, “found 
him sitting on reams of stuff he’d written about 
the Deros, bought every bit of it and con- 
tracted for more. I thought it was the sickest 
crap I’d run into. Palmer ran it and doubled 
the circulation of Amazing within four 
months.” 
By the end of 1945, Amazing Stories was 
selling 250,000 copies per month, an amazing 
circulation for a science fiction pulp magazine. 
Palmer sat up late at night, rewriting Shaver’s 
material and writing other short stories about 
the Deros under pseudonyms. Thousands of 
letters poured into the office. Many of them 
offered supporting “evidence” for the Shaver 
stories, describing strange objects they had 
seen in the sky and strange encounters they 
had had with alien beings. It seemed that 
many thousands of people were aware of the 
existence of some distinctly nonterrestrial 
group in our midst. Paranoid fantasies were 
mixed with tales that had the uncomfortable 
ring of truth. The “Letters-to-the-Editor”’ sec- 
tion was the most interesting part of the 
publication. Here is a typical contribution 
from the issue for June 1946: 
“It is interesting that so many victims of this type of 
phenomenon were welding or operating electrical equipment 
such as radios, radar, etc. when they began to hear voices. 
Sirs: 
I flew my last combat mission on May 26 [1945] 
when I was shot up over Bassein and ditched my 
ship in Ramaree Roads off Chedubs Island. I 
was missing five days. I requested leave at 
Kashmere (sic). I and Capt. (deleted by request) 
left Srinagar and went to Rudok then through 
the Khese pass to the northern foothills of the 
Karakoram. We found what we were looking for. 
We knew what we were searching for. 
For heaven’s sake, drop the whole thing! You are 
playing with dynamite. My companion and I 
fought our way out of a cave with submachine 
guns. I have two 9” scars on my left arm that 
came from wounds given me in the cave when I 
was 50 feet from a moving object of any kind 
and in perfect silence. The muscles were nearly 
ripped out. How? I don’t know. My friend has a 
hole the size of a dime in his right bicep. It was 
seared inside. How we don’t know. But we both 
believe we know more about the Shaver Mystery 
than any other pair. 
You can imagine my fright when I picked up my 
first copy of Amazing Stories and see you 
splashing words about on the subject. 
The identity of the author of this letter was 
withheld by request. Later Palmer revealed his 
name: Fred Lee Crisman. He had inadvertently 
described the effects of a laser beam — even 
though the laser wasn’t invented until years 
later. Apparently Crisman was obsessed with 
Deros and death rays long before Kenneth 
Arnold sighted the “first” UFO in June 1947. 
A factual article 
about a saucer-like 
“circle-winged plane” 
was featured in this 
Palmer-edited issue 
of Amazing Stories 
from September 
1946, almost a 
year before the 
first “flying 
saucers” were 
sighted. 
