had their day, too. The Textbook of Iridiagnosis, 
fifth edition, 1921, carefully explains how to 
recognize glass eyes in order to avoid being caught 
making lengthy diagnoses of them.) The method 
never produced any results, and so it slowly faded 
away around the time of my grandfather. 
| expected the iridiagnostician at the natural living 
festival to be a doddering old man in his eighties, 
full of reminiscenses about Henry Lindlahr, J. 
Haskell Kritzer, and other bygone greats of the 
movement. But no. He was a young, hip-looking 
fellow as enthusiastic about iridology as if it were 
brand new. 
Since then, iridology has become entrenched in 
the holistic health scene, believed in (and financed) 
by thousands who never bothered to check out 
its full history. It has, in fact, been around long 
enough in its current incarnation to have undergone 
another round of debunkings. In 1979, University 
of California at San Diego researchers A. Simon, 
D. Worthen, and J. Mitas tested three iridologists, 
including Bernard Jensen, the author of the modern 
textbooks on the subject. The iridologists scored 
no better than would be expected by chance at 
making correct diagnoses of the illnesses of 143 
patients. And in 1981, D. Cockburn at the Univer- 
sity of Melbourne in Australia had iridologists 
evaluate before-and-after photos of the irises of 
patients who had developed acute diseases. Not 
only did the iridologists fail to diagnose any of the 
illnesses, they could find no changes in the eyes 
whatsoever! 
A similar resurgent alternative health practice is 
zone therapy, based on the belief that every organ 
of the body is connected to a different spot on 
the bottom of the foot, the roof of the mouth, 
and the hands. Zone therapy is often linked by its 
practitioners with acupuncture and shiatsu massage, 
an association from which it derives venerability, 
but the truth is that, like iridology, zone therapy 
was another turn-of-the-century invention, by a 
Dr. William H. Fitzgerald of St. Francis Hospital of 
Hartford, Connecticut. Zone therapy flourished 
for a while, aided by testimonials of spectacular 
cures. But the cures somehow didn’t endure the 
test of time, and the practice slowly faded out. By 
1950 it was nearly extinct. Now it has been resur- 
rected as reflexology, and poster charts of the 
bottom of the foot can be found in health food 
stores everywhere. It is currently practiced 
without some of Dr. Fitzgerald’s more unusual 
treatments, like the application of tight rubber 
bands and spring clothes pins to various fingers 
and toes. 
Many other past systems of bygone medical 
quackery have been revived in recent years, includ- 
ing chromotherapy (healing with colored lights), 
colonics (enemas), and homeopathy (where medi- 
cinal tinctures are made so dilute that not one 
molecule of the active ingredient remains). 
@ 
(Top) A chart of the foot according to reflexology, the 
modern version of zone therapy. Practitioners claim 
that each region corresponds to a specific organ or 
portion of the anatomy, and that treatment of bodily 
ailments can be achieved by the application of pressure 
to the proper area of the foot. (Middle) Ignatz von 
Peczely’s original iris chart and (bottom) its modern 
counterpart by iridologist Bernard Jensen. Like reflex- 
ologists with feet, iridologists claim that areas of the 
iris specifically correspond to organs and parts of the 
body, and that complex diagnoses can be made by 
the examination of the eye alone. 
193 
