Mormon, are also channeled texts (received via the “chan- 
nels” Mohammed and Joseph Smith, respectively). Liter- 
ally tens of thousands of channeled books have been self- 
published by small groups of believers in the U.S. alone 
over the last hundred years, and a good case could be 
made that channeling is an essential element in the forma- 
tion of any new religion. 
Only the most cynical skeptic would charge that all 
channels are outright frauds. Many channels are obvi- 
ously reluctant and bewildered by the whole process; one 
slim volume of channeled material produced in 1978 even 
bears the title Why Me?' In many cases the style of 
speech and writing produced by the channeled entity dif- 
fers radically from that of the channel’s, and the informa- 
tion and philosophy imparted appears, at first glance, to 
go beyond the abilities of the otherwise rather lackluster 
human through which the wisdom issues. The mystery 
that presents itself, then, is where does this material come 
from? If it doesn’t originate from the person whose 
mouth and tongue are forming the words, then who is 
doing the speaking? The most superficial answer, that a 
paranormal entity has entered the channel's body, has led 
millions of people to seek out channels as oracles of di- 
vine information. 
The oracles most often consulted by seekers in the 
1980s employ “‘automatic speaking,” the form of chan- 
neling in which entities purportedly speak through a per- 
son (the channel) who is in a trance. But automatic 
speaking is really only a sub-category of the larger 
psychological phenomenon of automatisms—motor be- 
haviors that appear to occur independently of the will— 
that includes such things as “automatic writing” and 
“automatic painting.” 
Automatic Writing. Next to automatic speaking, the 
most widespread form of channeling is automatic writing. 
This may be performed when the channel, in a trance, 
writes out messages with a pen or pencil, or it may be ac- 
complished with the aid of simple devices like the plan- 
chette or the Ouija board, which register unconscious 
movements of the hands. (Similar devices are known to 
have been used in China and by the American Indians.) 
On July 8, 1913, a Ouija board eerily spelled out this 
introduction to St. Louis housewife Pearl Curran: “Many 
moons ago I lived. Again I come—Patience Worth my 
name.” At first using the Ouija board, and later using pen 
and paper or automatic speaking, Patience Worth dictated 
many poems and stories, including a number of successful 
novels. In fact, thousands of books have been produced 
by automatic writing or even, as in the case of the massive 
Oahspe: A New Bible,’ by “automatic typing.” 
Automatic Art. Although not as common as automatic 
' Ji Willow. Why Me? Deerfield Enterprises, Inc., 1 Adler 
Drive, East Syracuse, NY 13057. 
* Channeled in King James Biblical style by John Newbrough, 
a New York dentist, in 1881. Today Oahspe is the bible of the 
Universal Brotherhood of Faithists. 
speaking or automatic writing, there are numerous ex- 
amples of “automatic drawing” or “automatic painting,” 
in which the channel serves as a conduit for deceased ar- 
tists. Luiz Antonio Gasparetto, a Brazilian who has pro- 
duced more than 20,000 paintings by the “spirits” of Le- 
onardo da Vinci, Renoir, Michelangelo, Monet, van Gogh, 
Toulouse-Lautrec, and others, paints in semi-darkness, 
producing finished works in as little as eight minutes. 
Sometimes he channels three artists simultaneously, one 
with each hand and the third with a foot! Many of his 
paintings bear a strong resemblance to the styles of the 
supposedly channeled masters, but others are poor 
matches at best, because, according to Gasparetto, the art- 
ists’ styles have continued to evolve in the afterlife. 
British psychic Matthew Manning has channeled the 
posthumous work of artists like Klee, Durer, Beardsley, 
and Picasso (who, as prolific as in life, also works through 
Gasparetto). In addition, Manning produces written 
works by deceased poets and philosophers, including the 
late Bertrand Russell, the famous atheist who, in the after- 
life, has been forced to admit he was wrong. Many others 
continue to write from beyond the veil. An entire book of 
Emily Dickinson's postmortem poetry has been published, 
and the late 
Jane Roberts, of “Seth” fame, produced chan- 
neled volumes by Paul Cezanne and William James. 
Automatic Surgery. There are even channeled sur- 
geons. The late Arigo (real name: Jose Pedro de Freitas), 
a Brazilian “psychic surgeon” made famous by the book 
Arigo: Surgeon of the Rusty Knife by John Fuller (author 
of a number of books on the paranormal), channeled the 
spirit of a dead German surgeon, “Dr. Fritz.”” While in 
trance, Arigo adopted a heavy German accent and per- 
formed surgery on patients without the use of anesthetic 
and under decidedly unsanitary conditions. 
There are any number of mental states that bear some 
resemblances to channeling, including possession, glosso- 
lalia, past-life regression, and multiple personalities. 
Possession. “My name is Legion: for we are many,” 
replies an “unclean spirit” when Jesus commands it to 
identify itself, in the famous Biblical account of demonic 
possession. Jesus orders the devils to leave their human 
victim, so they enter a herd of pigs, which rush over a 
cliff and drown in the sea. Spirit possession is an age-old 
belief, common to many cultures. Its similarity to chan- 
neling is obvious: in both, a person’s normal personality is 
overwhelmed by an intruding personality (the “entity’’) 
that appears to originate from without. In the case of 
channeling, the entity has been invited in; in possession 
the intruder is unwelcome. 
Glossolalia. Like channeling, glossolalia (“speaking 
in tongues”) is a form of automatic speaking. Glossolalia 
refers to spontaneous utterances, usually made in a state 
of religious fervor, that are often incoherent or in a nonex- 
istent “language,” or, more rarely, in a real language for- 
eign to the speaker. Mormons, Pentecostals, and other 
55 
