Shabtai Zvi is just such an example. A Jew raised in 
the city of Smyrna in Turkey, in 1648 Zvi privately de- 
clared himself the messiah to a small group of disciples. 
His rise to power was to be heralded, as usual, with mir- 
acles, portents, and so on. When these did not occur, his 
messiahhood was not discredited. On the contrary, when 
he disclosed his identity to the community at large, he was 
expelled from Smyrna but his following swelled. The 
date of his miraculous messianic revelation was pushed 
off to 1666, and by 1665 his following among the Jewish 
communities in Eastern Europe had grown astronomi- 
cally. The following year Zvi set out to Constantinople to 
depose the Sultan of Turkey, thereby fulfilling one of his 
own prophecies. Before he could carry out this plan of 
action the would-be messiah was captured by under- 
standably concerned Turkish authorities and jailed. 
Now his followers grew ecstatic. Jews from as far 
away as Hungary sold their possessions, abandoned their 
houses, and prepared to see Zvi where he was holding 
court in the Turkish jail. The Sultan, fearing that Zvi’s 
execution would make him an instant martyr, chose a dif- 
ferent route, and somehow convinced the messiah to for- 
sake Judaism to become a Muslim. It was only after his 
conversion to Islam that Zvi’s following dwindled, al- 
though many followed his example and converted them- 
selves. To this day a small number of Jews believe that 
Shabtai Zvi was the true messiah. 
THE GHOST DANCE 
Native Americans have had their own messianic 
movement, a short-lived phenomenon culminating in the 
Ghost Dance religion of the early 1890s. The central ten- 
ets of this religion concerned beliefs in a messiah and a 
return to an idyllic existence where the land would be re- 
stored to its aboriginal state, without the presence of the 
white man. 
Fearing that this doctrine might secretly encourage re- 
newed hostilities, the U.S. Government sent one of its 
finest ethnographers, 
James Mooney, to study it. His 
monograph, “The Ghost-Dance Religion and the Sioux 
Outbreak of 1890,” is a rare and detailed insight into this 
classic messianic movement. 
According to Mooney, the Ghost Dance movement 
began in 1870 when a medicine man called Tavibo ap- 
peared among the Paiute. He claimed that within a few 
moons there would be a great upheaval: whites would be 
swallowed up, but their artifacts (houses, tools, etc.) 
would remain untouched. His gospel claimed few adher- 
ents, so Tavibo undertook a second vision quest. The 
prophecy was altered. Both whites and Indians would be 
swallowed up, but three days later only Indians would rise 
up to enjoy the bounty of a renewed world. (The influ- 
ences of a Christian doctrine are obvious here.) While this 
second message made somewhat more sense, it still lacked 
sufficient appeal to create a following among the tribe, so 
Tavibo made a third and final visit to the mountain. 
A captain in the U.S. Infantry described Tavibo’s third 
vision as follows: “The divine spirit had become so much 
incensed at the lack of faith in the prophecies that it was 
revealed to his chosen one that those Indians who be- 
Waiting for the Apocalypse 
Waiting for the Apocalypse 
Daniel Cohen 
1983; 262 pp. 
$11.95 
($13.95 postpaid) from: 
Prometheus Books 
700 E. Amherst St. 
Buffalo, NY 14215 
800/421-0351 
We humans are an egocentric lot. Once we were sure we 
occupied the center of the universe—then astronomy proved 
otherwise. 
Well, certainly we were the pinnacle of creation— 
but then Darwin came along. Today we console ourselves 
that, though we may not occupy a central position in interstel- 
lar space or in organic nature, at least we occupy a pivotal 
point in time: the final days before the End of the World. But 
Daniel Cohen’s Waiting for the Apocalypse pops this last 
bubble of morbid egocentrism by demonstrating that, no mat- 
ter how convincing this viewpoint may seem at this time in his- 
tory, people have felt this way since the beginning of civiliza- 
tion and—up until now at least—they’ve always been wrong. 
Cohen’s book includes selected histories of doomsday be- 
liefs, including Norse mythology, medieval astrologers, and the 
nineteenth-century Millerites. 
It also discusses catastrophist 
scenarios and modern visions of the End, including nuclear 
war, meteoric and cometary collisions, extinctions, and the in- 
evitable death of the sun. 
There’s plenty of large-scale grist for the compulsive 
worrier’s mill here, but remember: of the many choices pre- 
sented, only one will ultimately do the deed. 
Don’t place your 
bets till you've read the program. 
—T.S. 
e 
Why are catastrophists eternally popular with the general 
public? There are several reasons. 
As we have already 
pointed out the idea that the world has undergone and will 
continue to undergo enormous catastrophes is an ancient and 
deeply ingrained one. Catastrophes simply make sense to a 
lot of people, whereas slow processes like erosion and evolu- 
tion do not. 
It is hard to think in terms of millions of years. 
The catastrophist can write broadly and dramatically about 
grand themes like universal floods and world-shaking earth- 
quakes. The arguments of geologists and paleontologists are 
dull by comparison. 
Often the scientific arguments are techni- 
cal or even mathematical and thus not easily understood by 
the general public. 
Finally the catastrophist usually roundly denounces the 
scientific “establishment” as being blind, pigheaded, and 
prejudiced against anyone who is not a member of that estab- 
lishment. The catastrophist thus presents himself as sort of 
a martyr, or at least an underdog, being either persecuted or 
ignored by this vast and closed scientific establishment. 
Falling stars, eclipses, earthquakes, and other signs of the Last Days, 
as aie 
in a Millerite publication. 
had 
Pearl Sights ond Great Signs sll there bo fon 
‘ 
) Heaven.’ —Loxe DOS eal By 
