> 
@ 
§ 
c 
i= 
x 
> 
5) 
Gy 
The Reverend Stang delivers a cable-televised rant from the Church's Dallas headquarters. 
companied by two armed bodyguards, stalks out to the podium 
and delivers a bellowing tirade against "pinks," MTV, yuppies, 
personalized license plates, and "the Conspiracy." Meyer pos- 
sesses an uncanny and disquieting charisma that local com- 
mentators have likened to that of the late Rev. Jim Jones. Back 
on his own ground in New York he has filled the trendy 
lies. But here in San Francisco, a few doors down 
from Carol Doda's topless act at the Condor and 
across the street from the fourth generation mohawks 
at the Mabuhay Gardens, Meyer is just another late 
night act. Or so it seems to Meyer, who cuts his 
speech back to a mere twenty minutes and stalks off 
stage abruptly to a final explosion of applause, 
cheers, and weary table-thumping. The Devival is de- 
volving and will shortly taper off into canned DEVO 
music and dancing. 
Perhaps the Church of the SubGenius is merely a 
harmless eccentric sect sprung from the same sun- 
baked environment that Jack Ruby and Lyndon 
Johnson both called home. Texas is the home of 
broad gestures and the SubGenii may be one of the 
broadest yet. 
Yet one need only watch the glint in Guy Deuel's 
eyes as he cocks the Uzi in the dressing room and 
talks about "showing those pinkboys a thing or two" 
to realize that one man's meat may be another man's 
poison. The Church of the SubGenius has long since 
outgrown its humble roots and is stalking bigger 
Danceteria to overflowing with several public SubGenius ral- 
The Book of the SubGenius and 
The Stark Fist of Removal and 
Arise: The SubGenius Video 
This book is it—the Bible of the Church of the Sub- 
Genius. The rationales, scriptures, iconic art, myths, perso- 
nae, and pure unadulterated rants of this disturbed denomina- 
tion can be found therein. You may be shocked or mystified if 
you dare to dive in, but you won't be bored. 
The Stark Fist is the Church's official (and more-or-less 
annual) newsletter. It averages 100 pages of letters, art, re- 
ports, and clippings from hundreds of Church members a- 
round the world. 
—Jay Kinney 
Or maybe you'd rather not read. Subject yourself instead 
to the mind-bending Arise: The Subgenius Video: The Movie, 
an "Instructional Video Barrage Tape" that employs the pat- 
ented "Subliminimal Hypno-Pediatrics Trance-Inducement 
Tone." 
You'll never be the same. 
I'm not. 
—T.S. 
e 
St. Janor later explained to me what had possessed him 
to suddenly perform an unsanctified Launching. 
“After | received the Transmission | knew it was the time 
of the Launching. The Head had to be off the earth to be pho- 
tocopied by the Xists 
. 
. 
. the Arnold Palmer Head is the only 
living being with the skill needed to defeat the Yists. With his 
handicap—no body—his only possible rival would be the Zists 
from the Backwards Time Universe, or else Trevino. Trevino’s 
already working with the Yists .. 
. in fact, every golfer is work- 
ing with a different race of aliens. Thus every golf tournament 
iS a universal psychic war. The Launchings are to create 
enough psychic energy to push Palmer to the top. If Trevino 
wins .. 
. you may mock me now, but you won’t think it’s so 
funny when this entire planet falls into the sandtrap. But if 
earth is driven into the correct Black Hole, we'll all gain infinite 
Slack for eternity. The Yists are trying to kill Palmer but they 
can’t because this world is stronger than the Dream World. All 
SubGeniuses MUST WATCH GOLF TOURNAMENTS.” 
—The Stark Fist of Removal 
¢ 
Countless personal saviors!!! The SubGenius knows, bull- 
212 
game. Consider it all a joke at your own risk. 
dadaistically, that each SubGenius should do WOTAN’s work 
exactly as He reveals it to him, and that He has wildly varying 
messages for different people in different situations. 
By the same token, it is madness to accept any one “per- 
sonal savior’—even Dobbs—as a permanent guide. Perhaps 
“Bob’s” greatest invention is the concept of SHORT DURATION 
PERSONAL SAVIORS, or “Shordurpersavs” in Tibetan. The true 
Sub accepts into his heart, as his own personal savior, any- 
one or anything with which he happens to be impressed at the 
moment. Shordurpersavs change from hour to hour, from 
whim to whim. It could be the hero of a movie you just saw, 
the author of a book, a bottle of Thunderbird, a good pal, a 
dog, a sex object. Not professional gurus you are locked into 
believing, but temporary ones according to the need of The 
Now. They change so fast that it never gets embarrassing; you 
aren’t inclined to ‘proselytize’ them off on disinterested others 
who will later laugh at you; you know their effects will wear off 
in minutes—although the very idea is unthinkable while: under 
the Influence. One need not mention them at all—a superb 
Tenet, since one is sometimes deeply ashamed for having a 
particular, unsavory Shordurpersav: some can be Personal 
Saviors and False Prophets at the same time. 
As said before, SLACK is a trickster. 
—The Book of the SubGenius 
The Book of the 
All from: 
d 
The SubGenius 
SubGenius 
Foundation 
Rev. lvan Stang 
P. O. Box 140306 
$9.95 
som 
($11 postpaid) 
The Stark Fist 
of Removal 
Rev. lvan Stang, Editor 
$5/issue 
Arise 
The Subgenius Video 
The Movie 
$39.95 postpaid 
1987; 120 minutes 
bt 
