Roadside America and 
Weird, Wonderful America 
Vacationers, did you know that you can visit a memorial cairn 
at Ground Zero Numero Uno near Alamogordo, New Mexico? See 
conclusive proof that evolution NEVER HAPPENED at the Creation 
Evidences Museum in Glen Rose, Texas? Gaze upon the wonders 
of Liberace’s closet in Las Vegas, Nevada? Blow away dinosaurs 
with your mini M-16 at the Prehistoric Forest in Marblehead, 
Ohio? Forget Disneyland! This is the real America! 
And Roadside America is your guide. This book is not for 
tourists who insist on calling themselves “travelers” and buy their 
vacation wardrobes at Banana Republic. This is a travel guide of 
the tourists, by the tourists, and for the tourists. The only muse- 
ums Roadside America is interested in are the kind that feature 
wax Jummies in bloody Indian massacre scenes under ultraviolet 
light. If you have the right attitude, you will find that places you 
once thought to be unredeemably boring are actually gardens of 
tourist delight. (Oklahoma, for instance, boasts Oral Roberts’ 
Prayer Tower AND Enterprise U.S.A. AND the Tri-State Spook- 
light!!!) 
Roadside America does, however, have one humongous flaw: 
The authors refused to mar their sparkling narrative with such 
picayune details as addresses and phone numbers and direc- 
tions. How do these guys think we're gonna find these places— 
by PSYCHIC AFFINITY? Granted, many of the attractions (i.e.,Wall 
Drug, South Dakota and House on the Rock, Wisconsin) are lo- 
cated on such desolate stretches of highway that you’d have to 
be a blind, mummified, roller-skating parrot to miss the signs 
leading you in. But some good sights—such as the Nut Museum 
in Old Lyme, Connecticut—are pretty well hidden. 
This is where Weird Wonderful America comes in handy. It 
gives complete information on how to get to some of Roadside’s 
best destinations—including addresses, phone numbers, admis- 
sion prices and hours of operation. Weird Wonderful is also bet- 
ter organized: attractions are listed, not by category (as in Road- 
side), but by state (which is, after all, how most people travel). 
But as useful as it is, Weird Wonderful lacks Roadside’s 
gonzo enthusiasm for the disgustingly tacky side of American 
tourism. It unaccountably misses must-sees like Rock City, Geor- 
gia, while devoting untoward amounts of space to such thrilling 
destinations as the Girl Scout National Center and the Bowling 
Hall of Fame. If you get stuck shelling out $3 a head for some- 
place like that, you have no one but yourself to blame. So keep 
both guides in the glove compartment. You'll need them next va- 
cation when you're looking for someplace cheap to dump your 
carload of screaming brats. 
—Sarah Vandershaf 
e 
Finally, an answer to the question frequent air travelers have 
been asking for years: What do the Hare Krishnas do with all that 
money they collect in airports? The answer is simple: Among 
other things they use it to build golden palaces in the middle of 
nowhere! ... 
The Palace of Gold has been called "The Eighth Wonder of 
the World" by some, and while we are hesitant to take our praise 
that far right now, we think these Koo-Koo Krishnas are definitely 
on the right track. On display at the palace are plans for a one- 
hundred-acre Transcendental Theme Park called Krishnaland. 
. 
. 
. 
The designs for Krishnaland. are ambitious, but even partial 
Tourists take in the view from the deck of the National Freshwater 
Fishing Hall of Fame Museum (housed inside a giant muskle) In 
Hayward, Wisconsin. 
—Weird, Wonderful America 
completion by the target year of 2000 will guarantee New Vrind- 
aban a place of honor among tourism's elite. Trams, the Swan 
Skyride, and live elephants will transport the faithful throngs from 
the Land of Krishna Hotel to the Deity Swan Boat, the Plaza of 
Light, and the Trinavarta Victory Tower. 
—Roadside America 
e 
Rock City’s greatest achievement, Mother Goose Village, . 
. 
. 
sits inside a dark room the size of a small auditorium. 
It 
stretches before you into the darkness—a huge ultraviolet tab- 
leau—an alien landscape of dozens of intermingled dioramas de- 
picting Mother Goose rhymes topped by a ten-foot-tall castle. En- 
tire families shuffle like zombies around the village, barely illumi- 
nated by the glowing dioramas. No children cry. All are in awe. 
Hushed voices of parents and children mingle with the unrecog- 
nizable music echoing from above. There’s Jack Spratt. And Little 
Bo Peep. And a dish running away with a spoon. Who needs 
drugs? Life doesn’t get any freakier than Mother Goose Village. 
—Roadside America 
Roadside America 
The Modern Traveler’s 
Guide to the Wild and 
Wonderful World of America’s 
Tourist Attractions 
Jack Barth, Doug Kirby, Ken 
Smith, and Mike Wilkins 
Weird, Wonderful 
America 
The Nation’s Most Offbeat 
and Off-the-Beaten Path 
Tourist Attractions 
1986; 221 pp. 
Laura A. Bergheim 
$9.95 
1988; 265 pp. 
($11.45 postpaid) from: 
$8.95 
($9.40 postpaid) from: 
Macmillan Co. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Old Tappan, NJ 07675 
Riverside, NJ 08075 
800/223-2336 
609/461-6500 
e 
(Below, from left to right) 1) Three thousand 
bushels of corn and assorted grains decorate the 
walls of Mitchell's Corn Palace [in Mitchell, 
South Dakota], the agricultural showplace of the 
world. 2) "Hi there! I'm the state of Nevada, and 
1 glow in the dark. Guess why?" 3) South of the 
Border signs are legendary. Miniature versions 
can be purchased at most of the nine S.0.B. gift 
stores. 4) Claude Bell's: T. Rex at The Wheel Inn, 
Cabazon, California. 
—Roadside America 
Simon & Schuster 
Mail Order Sales 
200 Old Tappan Road 
219 
