The Hidden Event 
Study of the social processes of science at 
work in these examples leads us to the 
following discovery: If what is contrary to 
theory is rejected, it is not likely to be 
reported. If it is not reported, its existence 
may not even be suspected, Therefore, in 
some situations, the anomaly may be a hidden 
event, one almost invisible to the society at 
large. An example of such a hidden event is 
the battered child syndrome, whose preva- 
lence was virtually unsuspected until 
the 1950s. 
In the 1930s, a radiologist named John Caffey 
began to suspect that the x-ray films he was 
handling contained evidence of child abuse. 
Caffey was later to become one of the foun- 
ders of pediatric radiology, and his manual 
Pediatric X-Ray Diagnosis (now in its 7th edi- 
tion) is still the standard reference. As time 
went on, Caffey’s suspicions grew, and in 
1946 he published an article entitled “Frac- 
tures in the Long Bones of Children with 
Chronic Subdural Hematoma.” This was the 
first modern article on what would later be 
called the battered child, but its title and its 
contents gave only a hint of Caffey’s true 
thoughts. Off the record, he was much more 
specific, and his two residents Betram Gir- 
dany and Frederick Silverman were strongly 
imbued with Caffey’s idea of “multiple un- 
suspected traumata.” In the early 1950s, 
Silverman and other radiologists began to 
publish articles in medical journals that were 
much more direct. Children were being in- 
jured, x-rays could detect these injuries, and 
often the injuries were inflicted by the child’s 
caretakers. But there was little interest in 
child abuse by the medical community or 
among the general public. 
One of the problems with admitting child 
abuse as a reality was that physicians, 
especially pediatricians, simply couldn't 
accept what was happening. Pediatricians 
were used to thinking of parents as allies in 
the treatment of the child, and to see parents 
as child abusers went against their deepest 
instincts. “If I thought the parent could 
abuse the child, I would leave pediatrics 
immediately!” one pediatrician stated emo- 
tionally during a meeting on child abuse. 
106 
Even if they did suspect abuse, there wasn’t 
much they could do about it. These social 
forces conspired to keep child abuse a hid- 
den event. Only after the development of 
teams that included social workers, pedia- 
tricians, and radiologists was intervention 
generally successful. 
The sudden explosion of awareness on child 
abuse took place because a pediatrician, C. 
Henry Kempe, became convinced that the 
problem was widespread. His first brush 
with the problem was the faulty diagnoses 
of children’s injuries being made by resi- 
dents under his supervision at the University 
of Colorado Medical School. 
I was intellectually offended at first, before 
my better instincts took over, by the simply 
silly diagnoses being made by bright house 
staff in situations where nothing but child 
abuse could be the diagnosis . 
. 
. Having 
been intellectually engaged in the fact that 
the wrong diagnosis was being made each 
day in our hospitals, it was clear that we 
must do something to help. 
And he did. In 1961, as the national program 
chair for the American Academy of Pediatrics, 
Kempe organized a panel on child abuse. 
Along with Frederick Silverman, he invited a 
social worker, a judge, a psychiatrist, and the 
director of the Health Law Center of the Uni- 
versity of Pittsburgh. The panel was held in 
the Grand Ballroom of the Palmer House in 
Chicago, and the packed room held roughly 
two thousand persons, including the news 
media. The title of the panel was “The Bat- 
tered Child Syndrome.” The repercussions 
were powerful, immediate, and enduring. 
After 1961, there was a steady increase in the 
coverage of child abuse in medical journals, 
newspapers, and magazines. 
But the key to uncovering the hidden event 
of child abuse was the establishment of new 
reporting channels and new laws that man- 
dated reporting. A national survey of 
hospitals and district attorneys conducted 
P27
5 e
i 
aie 
