right brain hemisphere began to merge 
with my left brain hemisphere” (and oth- 
ers). 
29, “The following sentence is false,” 
appears neither true, nor false, nor inde- 
terminate, nor meaningless, but incom- 
plete. We cannot judge it at all until we 
can judge the system of which it is part. 
(Most theological and political arguments. 
are about such incomplete statements, 
which are discussed as if they had true-_ 
false ratings, or “meaning,” outside the 
system which contains them.) 
” 
30, “The previous sentence was true, 
completes the incomplete system, which 
now can be judged. As is immediately 
obvious, this system is true if and only if 
it is false, and it’s false if and only if it’s 
true. Douglas Hofstadter calls such sys- 
tems Strange Loops, and (without using 
that term) anthropologist Gregory 
Bateson has demonstrated that the Game 
Rules of many societies and sub-cultures 
cause believers to appear like lunatics 
when seen from outside the system. Be- 
fore judging any proposition as true or 
false, you should not only ask if it might 
better be called indeterminate or mean- 
ingless or self-reflexive or a “local” 
Game Rule, but also if it is part of a 
Strange Loop that may make you appear 
crazy if you try to live with it. All con- 
spiracy theories beyond the local and 
temporary—for example, “The city coun- 
cil was bribed by the oil company”— 
tend to produce Strange Loops because 
they create the possibility that no data is 
untainted by conspiratorial manipulation, 
and the larger an alleged conspiracy is 
The New Inquisition and 
Wilhelm Reich in Hell 
When | learned that The New Inquisition was a critique of 
the style of skepticism practiced by the Committee for the Sci- 
supposed to be, the greater is the ten- 
dency of believers to enter the Strange 
Loop of paranoid schizophrenia. 
31 and 32, asserting that Darwinian 
evolutionary theory has been proven or 
disproven, I personally would classify as 
None Of The Above. I regard such asser- 
tions as propaganda in the Cold War be- 
tween Darwinians and Creationists. The 
Darwinian theory has more or less stood 
up for over a hundred years, has flaws 
which most biologists now admit, and 
may need considerable revision in the 
near future, but remains, as Popper has 
often argued, not in the same ball park at 
all as the “laws” of sciences like mathe- 
matical physics. (Personally, I don’t see 
any better biological model around than 
Darwin’s, but considering the criticisms 
recently raised within biology I strongly 
suspect a better model will arrive shortly 
— and will probably be equally offensive 
to Creationists 
. 
. .) 
33, “UFOs exist,’ seems to me the 
trickiest proposition on the list. I regard it 
as a simple empirical observation, as 
“true” and/or “false” as any other sense 
impression. People are always seeing 
things in the sky that they can’t identify; 
right now, it is fashionable to call such 
glitches “unidentified flying objects.” 
But people also are forever seeing things 
on the ground that they can’t identify; 
should we call them “unidentified terres- 
trial objects?” 
This last example simply illustrates 
that when a feud lasts long enough, 
people lose track of what they are arguing 
about. “UFOs exist” does not assert the 
same thing as “Alien spaceships exist"; it 
is merely the heat of intellectual warfare 
that causes both sides to frequently lose 
sight of that simple distinction. It would 
be miraculous if no unidentified flying 
objects existed; that could only indicate a 
sudden evolutionary quantum jump in 
which human perception and reasoning 
both increased to near perfection. Per- 
sonally, I often encounter unidentified ob- 
jects in my own closet .. 
. and sometimes 
my wife doesn’t know what they are or 
where they came from, either. 
De 
ll 
is a wonderful convenience when we can reduce an argument to simple 
“true or false,” without fudging the data or conveniently “forgetting” ambigui- 
ties and uncertainties. In such cases, Aristotelian-Boolean logic quickly solves 
the question. The main reason so many issues in science, philosophy, religion, 
and politics are still in dispute, however, is not that everybody is “unreason- 
able” except for you and your friends, but that, at any given time, most theo- 
ries remain merely internally valid or phenomenologically indeterminate or 
meaningless, or are merely self-reflexive or are local Game Rules or contain 
paradox-and-paranoia-engendering Strange Loops. Or else, in many cases, we 
simply haven’t yet collected enough data to settle the matter. 
cher-Masoch (also a clown), Marilyn Monroe, Ouspensky, “Ab- 
byjerry Hoffrubin,” Playboy bunnies, a punk-rock American 
Medical Association, and Calley Eichmann, a cabbage. — T.S. 
entific Investigation for Claims of the Paranormal, | didn’t ex- 
pect to like it very much. 
I’ve always had a soft spot for the 
underdog, and the CSICOP/skeptical point of view is grossly 
underrepresented in the popular literature of the paranormal. 
But | was wrong about this book. 
It’s witty, contentious, and 
in its own way rigorously skeptical of everything, including the 
“Fundamentalist Materialism” of some (but not all) of the CSI- 
CoP-style skeptics. 
Wilson’s obviously sympathetic to a whole 
range of fringe ideas, but he’s careful to maintain a healthy 
skepticism about these as well. 
The most appealing thing about The New Inquisition is 
that, except for the first chapter, it’s written in a perfect imita- 
tion of Charles Fort’s quirky style (see p. 81). This makes it a 
particular delight for Forteans, all the more so because Wilson 
drags in a grab-bag of weird facts and fringe theories in order 
to illustrate the relativism of our assumptions about reality. 
Wilhelm Reich in Hell, a play that’s been performed at 
the Edmund Burke Theatre in Dublin, Ireland, is a simultane- 
ously hilarious and poignant example of Wilson’s fiction 
writing. 
The setting is an absurdist Hell, and the characters 
include Reich (the scientist whose books were burned in the 
'50s), Satan, the Marquis de Sade (as a clown), Baron von Sa- 
e 
| live in Ireland, a country where the majority of the popula- 
tion, according to a recent poll, believes that Jesus Christ was 
conceived parthogenetically and rose from the dead after be- 
ing buried. They do not bump into walls, and they drive their 
cars about as well as Londoners or New Yorkers, and they do 
not seem particularly mad to me. Their reality-tunnel seems 
to work well enough, most of the time—as most reality tun- 
nels seem to work tolerably well, most of the time. 
It seems to me that existence—at this point | have doubts 
about “the” “universe’ ’—ijs a lot like a Rorschach ink-blot. 
Everybody looks at it and sees their own favorite reality-tunnel. 
The New Inquisition 
Irrational Rationalism and 
the Citadel of Science 
Robert Anton Wilson 
1986; 240 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) 
a 
ie 
89104 
Wilhelm Reich in Hell 
800/545-3266 
Robert Anton Wilson 
1987; 165 pp. 
$9.95 
($10.95 postpaid) 
—The New Inquisition 
Both from: 
Falcon Press 
1605 E. Charleston 
Bivd., Suite 147 
Las Vegas, NV 
ESO
EL
LL
PS 
PEON
EPL 
IRI 
DPI 
IPED,
LA
PTOI
BM 
MRET
GE 
