I 
EE 
INE 
ST 
LARRY 
OO 
DO YOU HAVE ‘"differ- 
ent" tastes? Intrigued by the 
bizarre, the kooky, the outré— 
as long as it keeps its distance? 
Enjoy getting unsolicited, un- 
speakably weird things in the 
mail—for free? Love to snicker 
in superiority (perhaps largely 
imagined) at the incredible gul- 
libility of others? Enjoy read- 
ing the headlines on sleazy 
tabloids, and ads for local psy- 
chic fortune tellers? Appreciate 
unexpected glimpses of the 
strange "realities" behind re- 
ligions other than your own? 
Entranced by the thought proc- 
esses of the mentally ill? Pain- 
fully aware that all the great 
geniuses and inventors of the 
past appeared totally insane to 
everyone around them? 
Then... HAVE WE GOT 
A HOBBY FOR YOU!! 
The Traveling Snake-Oil Medi- 
cine Show isn't dead—it just travels 
by mail. 
Simply by writing for 
information—without 
sending 
money—you can embark on a never- 
ending tour of the zoo of beliefs, the circus of gullibility, the 
freak show of Faith, the arena of the utter strangeness of true 
genius, of that which is all-too-literally ahead of its time. 
Few hobbies are simpler. Here's how it's done: 
You type up a form letter, saying something ambiguous 
like, "I am interested in your product/services. Please send 
details, catalog." Xerox a few dozen copies of it. Go through 
Your Pathway to 
The Keys to 
INSTANT SUCCESS, 
MYSTIC KNOWLEDGE, 
MIRACULOUS INVENTIONS 
& CONTACT WITH 
THE SPACE BROTHERS 
are Within Your Grasp— 
For Only a 25¢€ Stamp! 
by Rev. Ivan Stang, 
Philosophur Ekstaticus 
Church of the SubGenius 
this article, as well as the cheesy ads 
in the back of your favorite lowbrow 
magazines (Soldier of Fortune, per- 
haps, or the Weekly World News, or 
that great old stand-by, the National 
Enquirer) and mail off for anything 
that interests you. 
With the more 
fanatical groups, a simple request for 
information like this can net you sev- 
eral thick volumes of priceless bull- 
dada (acollectors' term meaning "that 
which is great because it doesn't know 
how bad it is"). 
Your 25¢ investment will pay off 
geometrically as your address is sold 
from one mailing list to another. Soon, 
A MILLION CONTRADICTORY 
PATHS TO HAPPINESS will be 
vying for your personal attention in 
the mailbox, paths ranging from in- 
advertently hilarious delusions to the 
wisdom of the ages, yet—and this is 
the most revealing part—each one 
the only TRUE Path!! 
Weirdness-by-mail 
is a safe 
hobby; in my ten years of collecting, 
I have never once had any kook, psy- 
chotic, holyman or enlightened gen- 
ius appear at my door. The Secret 
Service, yes. But they weren't trying 
to sell me anything. 
HELPFUL HINTS: 
Spirit mediums, UFO contactees, and 
fly-by-night Mystery Schools are notoriously short-lived. 
At the time of writing, all addresses were good, but we can't 
guarantee how long they'll last. 
When ordering magazines, Canadians should always 
add a dollar for extra postage; for overseas orders, add $2. 
Prices quoted are in U.S. dollars— use international money 
orders or checks drawn on U.S. banks. 
or 
Ivan Stang is a co-founder of the Church of the Subgenius (see pp. 209-212). A different version of this survey of weirdness-by-mail 
appeared in a past issue of Whole Earth Review, and led to an outrageously entertaining book called High Weirdness By Mail, 
which I highly recommend if you are maniacal enough to want more ($9.95; $11 postpaid from The Subgenius Foundation, P.O. Box 
140306, Dallas, TX 75214). 
—TS. 
Some descriptions submitted by other Subgenii, including: Dr. Philo U. Drummond, T.J. Tellier, Dennis Cripps, Glenn Bray, Lou Minati, Remote Control, and Ted Schultz. 
©1989 Rev. Ivan Stang 
213 
