Reincarnation: Pro and Con 
Of the authors that contend that reincarnation exists, 
there is no better researcher than lan Stevenson. 
Stevenson, 
a psychiatrist and professor at the University of Virginia, has 
spent over twenty-five years tracking down cases of children 
who claim to remember former lives—in some cases he has 
even located the families of the “previous incarnation,” and 
compared the “memories” with the facts. 
The majority of the 
cases come from India and the Middle East, where reincarna- 
tion is a strongly held belief. Some of the cases come from 
members of the Druse religion, who even attempt, as a matter 
of religious tradition, to locate the newborn reincarnation of 
recently deceased relatives (who are usually conveniently re- 
born nearby). 
Naturally this suggests the criticism that chil- 
dren of these cultures are prompted or encouraged to spin 
tales of previous lives, but, to Stevenson's credit, he attempts 
to address this and other problems as he analyzes the cases. 
If it’s hard to find reliable books on the case for reincarna- 
tion, it’s even harder to find any that present the skeptical 
viewpoint. 
Three chapters in Melvin Harris’ Investigating the 
Unexplained (reviewed on page 201) provide an excellent 
skeptical treatment of hypnotic “past-life regressions,” dis- 
cussing both the Bridey Murphy case and the sensational 
cases of British hypnotherapist Arnall Bloxham. 
But the best 
critique of reincarnation I’ve seen appeared as a four-part se- 
ries in the Fall 1986 through Summer 1987 issues of Free In- 
quiry magazine. 
The first issue of the series includes an ar- 
ticle by Melvin Harris summarizing his research, as well as 
part one of philosopher Paul Edwards’ four-part point-by-point 
critique of reincarnation. 
In the series of articles, Edwards 
outlines the various doctrines of reincarnation and discusses 
particulars like the Law of Karma, body-mind dualism, the 
creation of new souls, and where the mind is between incarna- 
tions. He concludes with an engrossing discussion of 
Stevenson's assumptions, methods, and conclusions. 
—T.S. 
e 
When Wijeratne was between two and two and a half 
years old he began to walk around his house in a solitary way 
talking to himself. 
His behavior attracted the attention of his 
mother, who listened to his tale. She overheard him saying 
that his arm was deformed because he had murdered his wife 
in his previous life. He mentioned a number of details con- 
nected with a crime of which she, until that time, had heard 
nothing. She asked her husband about the boy’s statements 
and he confirmed the accuracy of what the boy was saying for 
in fact his younger brother, Ratran Hami, had been executed 
in 1928 for the murder of his wife. 
—Twenty Cases Suggestive of Reincarnation 
e 
Many subjects of these cases have birthmarks or birth de- 
fects that correspond, according to the informants and other 
sources of evidence, to wounds (or other marks) on the body 
Twenty Cases Suggestive 
of Reincarnation 
lan Stevenson 
of the related previous personality. 
In some instances a 
correspondence occurs between an internal disease of the 
subject and a similar one from which the previous personality 
suffered... 
Birthmarks and birth defects related to the previous per- 
sonality seem to me to provide some of the strongest evi- 
dence in favor of reincarnation as the best interpretation for 
the cases. They are objectively observable (| have photo- 
graphed several hundred of them), and for most of them the 
only serious alternative explanation that | can think of is a psy- 
chic force on the part of the baby’s mother that influences the 
body of the embryo or fetus within her. However, this explana- 
tion, which is itself almost as mind stretching (for the average 
Westerner) as reincarnation, can be firmly excluded in about 
twelve cases in which the child’s mother and father never 
heard of the identified previous personality until after the 
child’s birth. 
—Children Who Remember Past Lives 
e 
One of the skeptics is Professor Chari, an Indian philoso- 
pher, now retired from Madras Christian University, who is not 
a Western materialist or positivist but a Hindu and a well- 
known parapsychologist. 
Professor Chari does not reject rein- 
carnation, but he believes that Stevenson is incredibly naive 
and that his reports have no evidential value. 
. 
. 
. Chari insists that [Stevenson's cases are] cultural ar- 
tifacts, pure and simple. 
“A reincarnationist fantasy in the 
small Asian child,” he writes, “starts typically in play or a 
gamelike situation.” 
It is then promoted (or retarded) by the 
conscious or unconscious beliefs, attitudes, and responses of 
parents, guardians, and interested bystanders. 
Chari calls 
this fantasy the Asian counterpart of the “imaginary playmate” 
or “fictitious companion” that has been disclosed in many 
Western studies of childhood. 
—The Case Against Reincarnation 
e 
lan Wilson has emphasized that Stevenson generally dis- 
misses on the flimsiest grounds the possibility of fraud on the 
part of the children, their parents, and other interested par- 
ties. Stevenson maintains that no motive for fraud exists, 
when such motives are only too evident. 
Wilson has pointed 
out that several of the children remembered belonging to a 
higher caste in their previous lives and seem to have been 
motivated by a wish for better living conditions. 
In one case, 
for example, a boy asked for one-third of the land of his past- 
life father, showing no interest in his previous incarnation 
when this former “father” lost his fortune and became poorer 
than his father in the present life. Wilson also calls attention 
to the fact that Stevenson invariably tells us exceedingly little 
about the character and background of the parents, who are 
usually vital informants. 
In many cases, too, there was or 
easily could have been contact between the parents and per- 
sons connected with the “previous personality” about whose 
life the child had accurate recollections. 
—The Case Against Reincarnation 
oie a 
1980; 396 
pp. 
Free Inquiry 
ay 
Fall 1986, Winter 1986/87, 
$11.95 
. 
; 
Spring 1987, Summer 1987 
($13.95 postpaid) 
containing 
“The Case Against Reincarnation” 
Children Who Remember 
pate 
a 
Previous Lives 
by Paul Edwards 
lan Stevenson 
(Fall 1986 also contains 
rhe Evidence 
1987; 341 pp. 
“Are ‘Past-Life’ Regressions Evidence 
Agaitst on 
$14.95 
of Reincarnation?” by Melvin Harris) 
Reincar 
oie postpaid) 
$4.75 each postpaid or 
oth 
from: 
$19.00 (all four issues) postpaid from: 
University Press of Virginia 
Free Inquiry 
Box 3608, University Station 
P.O. Box 5 
Charlottesville, VA 22903 
804/924-3468 
Buffalo, NY 14215-0005 
716/834-2921 
