Ese PARANORMAL 
by Jerome Clark 
Wie: Charles Fort called them “the damned.” De- 
bunkers call them superstitious nonsense that threatens to 
undermine the fabric of science. Christian fundamental- 
ists call them satanic manifestations that undermine faith 
in God. Other people simply call them anomalies. 
Anomalies are things, or alleged things, that don’t fit. 
They can be minor oddities, of no interest to anyone ex- 
cept a scientist in a highly specialized discipline. Or they 
can be something else, something hinting at dramatic pos- 
sibilities and attracting widespread attention and contro- 
versy: a UFO sighting, a psychic experience, an encoun- 
ter with a poltergeist, a report of an unusual animal not 
known to conventional zoology. Anomalies are nothing 
new. As long as there have been human beings, people 
have claimed experiences with phenomena that, according 
to the prevailing religious or scientific orthodoxy, were 
not supposed to exist. Some, such as those unfortunates 
who made such claims during the Inquisition, were 
burned at the stake for it. Today the burning goes on, if 
only metaphorically. 
In 1977 a group of prominent academics and journal- 
ists—few of whom had firsthand experience with anom- 
aly research—formed the Committee for the Scientific In- 
vestigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP). The 
committee, whose members included such luminaries as 
Cornell astronomer Carl Sagan and Harvard zoologist 
Stephen J. Gould, declared as their mission nothing less 
than the salvation of Western civilization from “irrational- 
ity” and “dangerous sects,” which, because they accepted 
the reality of anomalies, opposed science—or so CSICOP 
charged. 
Not long afterward CSICOP complained to the Fed- 
eral Communications Commission about an NBC docu- 
mentary that treated paranormal phenomena more sympa- 
thetically than the debunkers liked. Although CSICOP al- 
leged that the point of view the documentary represented 
was harmful to the public, the FCC, unimpressed, refused 
to act. 
In one strange incident CSICOP official Philip J. 
Klass, learning of a forum on anomalies research that the 
University of Nebraska was sponsoring, called the school 
to protest that CSICOP’s views were not being represen- 
ted and that, moreover, in questioning the United States 
government’s word on the nonexistence of UFOs, speak- 
ers at the conference were seeking “what the Soviet Un- 
ion does—to convey to the public that our government 
cannot be trusted, that it lies, that it falsifies .. 
. As a pa- 
triotic American, I very much resent [this].” After Klass 
threatened legal action against the university, it canceled 
its sponsorship of future conferences of this kind. Klass 
withdrew the threat and pronounced himself satisfied with 
the university’s action. 
Since then satellite groups of debunkers have prolif- 
erated all around the country, determined to do battle with 
“pseudoscience,” real and imagined. Not content simply 
to argue the issues on their merits, they have harassed col- 
leges and universities into dropping (usually non-credit) 
courses in parapsychology, conducted vituperative cam- 
paigns against anomaly proponents, and done—in the 
words of Philadelphian Drew Endacott, one of their num- 
ber—“anything short of criminal activity” to get “the 
point across to people who have no demonstrated facility 
to reason.” 
As the anti-anomaly hysteria has escalated, even 
some skeptics have begun to express alarm. Psychologist 
Ray Hyman, a respected critic of parapsychology, speaks 
of a “frightening fundamentalism” in all this, a “witch- 
hunting” mentality that has nothing to do with real sci- 
ence. CSICOP cofounder Marcello Truzzi, a sociologist 
who left the organization when he grew concerned that it 
was becoming an “inquisitional body,” says that some de- 
bunkers have gone “berserk.” 
In fact, many scientists do not share these skeptics’ 
certainty that all anomalies are bogus. In 1969 the Para- 
psychological Association was accepted as an affiliate of 
the American Association for the Advancement of Science 
(AAAS). Ten years later the AAAS’s newly elected presi- 
dent, Kenneth Boulding, declared, “The evidence of para- 
psychology cannot just be dismissed out of hand.” In re- 
cent years polls of scientists and academics have revealed 
a considerable degree of open-mindedness on the subject. 
And in 1976, when physicist Peter Sturrock polled the 
members of the American Astronomical Society, fully 80 
percent agreed the UFO phenomenon deserves scientific 
attention. Several of the astronomers described their own 
UFO sightings. 
If history is any guide, most supposed anomalies will 
eventually be explained in conventional terms, either as 
delusions or as misinterpreted mundane events—and a 
few will prove rather more interesting than that. Mean- 
while, it’s time to defuse the hysteria and get back to the 
serious business of dispassionate investigation. 
The skeptics of the 
Committee for Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP; see p. 
197) have not made 
many friends among paranormal true believers, the more extreme of whom have (perhaps predictably) accused them of being agents 
in a government conspiracy to discredit the paranormal. Far more moderate than this, Jerome Clark, editor of both the Internation- 
al UFO Reporter (see p. 163) and Fate magazine (see pp. 81, 83), first aired his own complaints against CSICOP, reprinted here, in 
the February 1987 issue of Omni. 
—TS. 
Copyright 1987 by Omni Magazine and reprinted with the permission of Omni Publications International Ltd. 
203 
