2 
= 
harles Johnson, president of the Flat Earth So- 
ciety, is often interviewed by a TV network on 
Columbus Day. He always explains how Colum- 
bus sailed straight across the ocean from Spain to 
America, thus proving that the earth is flat. Johnson and 
his followers are the faithful remnant of a much larger 
movement, which developed in Victorian England and 
quickly spread throughout the English-speaking world. 
Flat-earthism is an ancient Christian tradition. Many 
of the Fathers of the Church—Lactantius, Diodorus, Sev- 
erianus, and Chrysostom, to name a few—insisted that 
scripture teaches a flat earth. In about 548 A.D., the Egyp- 
tian monk Cosmas Indicopleustes vigorously defended the 
Biblical flat earth against the heathen globe in his To- 
pographia Christiana. The Cosmas cosmos was shaped 
like a steamer trunk, rectangular with a vaulted roof. But 
Cosmas fought a losing battle, and the Ptolemaic system, 
with its spherical earth, rapidly took over. By the eighth 
century, flat-earthism was almost dead in the Western 
world. 
The modern flat-earth movement was launched in 
England in 1849 by an itinerant lecturer who called him- 
self “Parallax.” For the next thirty-five years, “Parallax” 
—his real name was Samuel Birley Rowbotham—toured 
England, attacking conventional astronomy in public lec- 
tures. His flat-earth system is still known to adherents by 
the name he coined, "zetetic astronomy." 
Zetetic astronomy teaches that the known world is a 
vast circular plane. The north pole is its center and a 150- 
foot wall of ice marks the “southern limit.” The equator is 
a circle concentric with the pole and the southern limit 
and lies roughly halfway between them. The sun, moon, 
and planets circle above the terrestrial plane in the region 
of the equator. Their apparent rising and setting is an opti- 
cal illusion caused by atmospheric refraction and the 
"zetetic law of perspective." The latter law also explains 
why ships apparently vanish over the horizon when sail- 
ing out to sea. The entire universe is enclosed by a solid 
dome. 
Rowbotham called his system “zetetic astronomy” 
(zetetic from the Greek verb zeteo, meaning to search or 
examine) because he sought only facts. In his lectures, he 
invariably praised facts at the expense of theories. Then 
he identified conventional astronomy with theories and 
zetetic astronomy with facts. Rowbotham was a tiger in 
debates, and newspaper accounts of his lectures often de- 
scribe how he mopped up the platform with the spherical 
opposition. While he focused on scientific arguments, he 
made clear that the bottom line was the Bible. 
In 1869, after two decades of “Parallax” lectures, the 
flat-earthers were still mostly ignored by “respectable” 
people. In that year, one John Hampden chanced upon a 
copy of Rowbotham’s Earth Not a Globe. An Oxford 
graduate, Hampden considered the book a complete refu- 
tation of Copernicus and Newton, and he decided to’con- 
front the scientific world with the zetetic facts. He placed 
an ad in the January 12, 1870, Scientific Opinion offering 
£500 to anyone who could “prove the rotundity and revo- 
No matter how universally accepted a consensus opinion may seem, you can be sure a small conclave of stubborn 
- 
freethinkers exists that supports an alternative notion. There is no better example of this than the flat-earth movement. 
Robert Schadewald, a science writer who specializes in the history of fringe ideas, has written for publications like 
Smithsonian, Science ’80, Technology Illustrated, Science Digest, and Skeptical Inquirer. His specialty is the flat- 
earth movement, and he is currently completing what promises to be the final word on the subject, a book called The 
Plane Truth. Until it’s published, your best second choice is the brief history presented here, which was originally 
written for the Bulletin of the Tychonian Society, a journal devoted to yet another alternative to conventional astron- 
omy, geocentrism (see pp. 89, 91). 
86 
—TS. 
