Robert Schadewald is repre- 
sented twice in this book: 
here, and as the author of 
the history of the flat earth 
movement (see page 86). 
Schadewald’s a rare breed: 
a historian of eccentric sci- 
ence. He’s written for maga- 
zines like Smithsonian, Sci- 
ence ’80, Technology Illus- 
trated, and others, including, 
as you'll soon see, Science 
Digest. For many years, 
he’s made a special study of 
perpetual motion, traveling 
to obscure libraries and mu- 
seums, interviewing inven- 
tors, and tracking down an- 
tique devices. 
T'S. 
120 
RPETUAL 
O YOU THINK THAT THE SEARCH FOR PERPETUAL MOTION 
ended in failure long ago? You’re half right. Failure is perpetual, but 
the search never ended. The energy shortage that raised its ugly head 
in the late ’70s had doctors, lawyers, and backyard mechanics redis- 
covering the “overbalancing wheel” and other rusty old ideas discred- 
ited a century ago. Time and terms change. The words “perpetual 
motion machine” cause problems at the Patent Office and scare off in- 
vestors. Modern experimenters talk instead about tapping energy 
sources not yet understood or building “over-unity” devices, machines 
that use energy but produce more than they use. 
Despite a long-time historical interest in the pursuit of perpetual 
motion, I once thought it was a dead issue. My enlightenment came 
when I personally invented—to hell with modesty—the most ingen- 
ious perpetual motion machine ever. I revealed my creation to the 
world in the April 1978 issue of Science Digest in a piece entitled 
“What Goes Up’... Is Basis for a Breakthrough.” 
The Schadewald Gravity Engine was designed to take advantage of 
the theoretical decline of the “universal gravitation constant”—it was 
essentially a big wheel with a weight on the rim that sped up with ev- 
ery revolution. The tone of my article was slightly immodest, and I 
compared myself to Descartes, Galileo, and Newton. I railed at the 
“experts” who sneer at gravity engines, and I defied the Powers That 
Be to try to suppress my invention. Renouncing material gain, I con- 
cluded as follows: 
As of April Ist, 1978, I yield my invention to the public domain, that it 
may solve the energy crisis and bring peace and prosperity to the world. 
I ask only that my initials be inscribed on the wheel of every engine, so 
that my genius may get the sort of recognition it deserves. 
— Bob Schadewald 
Science Digest illustrated the piece with a small envelope marked, 
“Do not open until April Ist.” Also, contrary to their normal practice, 
they put the by-line, “Bob Schadewald,” immediately following the 
last sentence of the text. You might suppose that if two references to 
April Ist and the grandiose and persecuted tone of the piece were not 
enough, the vision of “B.S.” on the wheel of every engine would 
arouse suspicion. 
Before I even knew the magazine was out, a gentleman called from 
Denver offering to buy my secret. “I’ve been experimenting with 
gravity engines for years,” he said, “and I could never get one to 
work.” Stunned, I told him that the Schadewald Gravity Engine 
wouldn’t work, either, that it was only an April Fool joke. He was 
greatly disappointed. 
