Psychology and the Occult 
Carl Jung was known to hold certain occult and parapsy- 
chological beliefs—reflected in his ideas about “synchronicity” 
and the “collective unconscious” —yet his investigations of 
the “channels” and psychics of his day demonstrate a thor- 
ough hard-headedness that makes his conclusions all the 
more worthy of our attention. 
This slim volume brings to- 
gether Jung’s writings on the occult, starting with his M.D. dis- 
sertation from 1902 and ending with his answers to a ques- 
tionnaire on parapsychology from 1960. 
Included are the re- 
sults of his research into spirit mediumship, divided personal- 
ity, automatism, heightened unconscious performance, cryp- 
tomnesia, and other topics that are essential for a complete 
understanding of channeling and the other particulars of 
today’s occult explosion. 
—T.S. 
e 
The psychology of the “Betty Books” differs in no essen- 
tial respect from the primitive view of the world, where the 
contents of the unconscious are all projected into external ob- 
jects. What appears to the primitive to be a “spirit” may on a 
more conscious level be an abstract thought, just as the gods 
of antiquity turned into philosophical ideas at the beginning of 
our era. 
This primitive projection of psychological factors is 
common to both spiritualism and theosophy. 
The advantage 
of projection is obvious: 
the projected content is visibly 
“there” in the object and calls for no further reflection. 
But 
since the projection does bring the unconscious a bit nearer 
to consciousness, it is at least better than nothing. 
e 
[S.W.] once returned from a railway journey in an ex- 
tremely agitated state. We thought at first that something un- 
pleasant must have happened to her; but finally she pulled 
herself together and explained that “a star-dweller had sat op- 
posite her in the train.” 
From the description she gave of this 
being | recognized an elderly merchant | happened to know, 
who had a rather unsympathetic face. Apropos of this event, 
she told us all the peculiarities of the star-dwellers: 
they have 
no godlike souls, as men have, they pursue no science, no 
philosophy, but in the technical arts they are far more ad- 
vanced than we are. Thus, flying machines have long been in 
existence on Mars; the whole of Mars is covered with canals, 
the canals are artificial lakes and are used for irrigation. The 
canals are all flat ditches, the water in them is very shal- 
low . 
. 
. Human spirits who get permission to travel in the Be- 
yond are not allowed to set foot on the stars. 
Similarly, trav- 
elling star-dwellers may not touch down on earth but must re- 
main at a distance of some 75 feet above its surface. 
Should 
they infringe this law, they remain in the power of the earth 
and must take on human bodies, from which they are freed 
only after their natural death. As human beings they are cold, 
hard-hearted, and cruel. 
S.W. can recognize them by their pe- 
culiar expression, which lacks the “spiritual,” and by their hair- 
less, eyebrowless, sharply cut faces. 
Napoleon | was a typical 
star-dweller. 
e 
Here | will mention only Binet’s experiments, where little 
letters or other small objects, or complicated little figures in 
relief, were laid on the anaesthesic skin of the back of the 
hand or the neck, and the unconscious perceptions were reg- 
istered by means of signs. On the basis of these experiments 
lations that | have been able to make, the unconscious sensi- 
bility of an hysterical patient is at certain moments fifty times 
more acute than that of a normal person.” 
Psychology 
"| $7.95 (postpaid) from: 
and the Occult © °°". Gecut | Princeton University Press 
Carl G. Jung 
: 
Attn: Order Dept. 
(translated by 
3175 Princeton Pike 
R.F.C. Hull) 
| 
| Lawrenceville, NJ 08648 
1976; 167 pp. 
: 
609/896-1344 
Reis eae 
64 
he comes to the following conclusion: 
“According to the calcu- 
nately, they don’t square with each other.” And we’d 
have to believe every word of Madame Blavatsky’s Secret 
Doctrine, an essentially racist story of human evolution 
(for example, Australian aborigines arose from “human 
fathers and semi-human mothers, or, to speak more cor- 
rectly, from human monsters,” and Tasmanians, some 
Australians, and certain mountain people of China are 
““semi-animal creatures’). 
We would also have to wonder why so many chan- 
neled predictions didn’t come true, like the coming of the 
saucer people predicted for 1952 by the entity Sananda, 
the rising of Atlantis predicted by Edgar Cayce for the late 
1960s, or the landing of a fleet of UFOs “some years, or 
sooner” after 1972, predicted by Uri Geller’s entity 
Hoova.® Obviously channeled information is not always 
true. And this leads to the inevitable question: How do 
you tell what is true and what is not? 
The great psychologist Carl Gustav Jung, who held 
many occult and paranormal beliefs,’ investigated a num- 
ber of channels during his career. In his M.D. disserta- 
tion, he discussed at length the case of “Miss S.W.,” an 
otherwise average turn-of-the-century Swiss girl who had 
become the channel for a large number of entities, each 
with its own characteristic facial expression, manner of 
speaking, and set of gestures. Though Jung observed the 
channeling of these entities for two years, he concluded 
that there was no evidence that any of these personalities 
originated from outside of S.W.’s own unconscious mind. 
He explained that portions of S.W.’s personality had split 
off into “complexes,” or subpersonalities, which then rep- 
resented themselves as “spirits,” and which had “at their 
disposal the whole of the medium’s memory, even the un- 
conscious portion of it.” 
Jung theorized that S.W., who was prone to extremes 
of shyness and boisterousness, was unconsciously “seek- 
ing a middle way between two extremes; she endeavors to 
repress them and strives for a-‘more ideal state. . 
. 
. These 
strivings lead to the adolescent dream of the ideal Ivenes 
[a calm and poised subpersonality], beside whom the un- 
refined aspects of her character fade into the background. 
They are not lost; but as repressed thoughts, analogous to 
the idea of Ivenes, they begin to lead an independent exis- 
tence as autonomous personalities.” 
In an introduction to the 1948 edition of The Unob- 
structed Universe by Stewart Edward White, a book of 
spirit communications channeled by the author’s wife, 
Jung made clear his non-supernatural explanation for 
channeling: 
The reader should not casually lay this book aside on 
discovering that it is about “Invisibles,” that is to say 
’Andrea Puharich. 
1974. Uri: A Journal of the Mystery of Uri 
Geller. New York: Doubleday, 1974. 
*According to William McGuire’s introduction to Psychology 
and the Occult (see review, this page), as an undergraduate at 
Basel University Jung declared in a lecture to a student club that 
spirits, telekinesis, clairvoyance, second sight, prophetic dreams, 
and other paranormal phenomena were real. 
