surveying to make observations on the waters of Lake 
Erie, which he claimed showed no convexity. He pub- 
lished his results in two editions of Js the Bible from 
Heaven? Is the Earth a Globe? (1890 and 1893). Gleason 
also produced a beautiful four-color map of the earth as a 
circular plane. 
In terms of numbers, the flat-earth movement proba- 
bly peaked in Zion, Illinois in the 1920s. Wilbur Glen 
Voliva, General Overseer of the Christian Apostolic 
Church of Zion, made flat-earthism a doctrine of the 
church. He also made Zion a theocracy, notorious for its 
blue laws and famous for its fig cookies. Voliva had a 
standing offer of $5,000 to anyone who could prove (to 
him) that the earth is a globe, and nobody ever collected. 
Zion had one of the first 100,000-watt radio stations in the 
country, and Voliva went on the air daily to thunder 
against “the Devil’s Triplets”: Evolution, Higher Criti- 
cism, and Modern Astronomy. His church claimed tens of 
thousands of members in the U.S. and it had large mis- 
Flat Earth Research Society 
Charles and Marjory Johnson’s Flat Earth Research Soci- 
ety is the direct heir to a long tradition of flat-earth organiza- 
tions. 
The official Society publication, the Flat Earth News, 
mixes flat-earth “common sense,” anti-ccommunism, anti-viv- 
isectionism, and fundamentalist Christianity. 
It’s absolutely 
and delightfully a one-of-a-kind publication. 
Eminently quot- 
able, it belongs on the coffee tables of all open-minded 
“round-ball-earthers. ” 
—T.S. 
e 
. We don’t have a “theory” earth is flat... oh no we don’t 
“believe” earth is flat!... oh no! WE KNOW EARTH IS FLAT! 
how, you say? 
We went out and CHECKED IT! How else could we 
KNOW? Greese ball world is nothing but rubbish myth idle fic- 
tion talk... NO PROOF OF ANY KIND EXISTS TODAY 1988 for a 
Greese Ball whirling in space! 
TOTAL PROOF EXISTS FOR THE “FACTS” earth is flat! 
Your school religion “science” tells you... proof earth a 
Greese ball... as you can see a Ship sailing over the edge... 
we went out checked sea... found sea was FLAT, lakes flat, 
rivers all... KEEP THE LAWS OF GOD... LAWS OF NATURE used 
to be called Laws of Physics... water seeks its own LEVEL... 
get it? Most of the world is water... right? and all of it LEVEL! 
How about “SEA level?” What do you think it means? Seaa 
Ball of water? 
No, sea LEVEL. 
A map of the flat earth. The 
grey area Indicates the end- 
less ice field beyond the 
“southern circumference.” 
ec 
everson 
ie 
mela 
International Flat Earth 
Research Society 
Charles K. Johnson, President 
“iz, (information 
fuij jj send self-addressed, stamped 
“4 
envelope to: 
. 
“a 
\nternational Flat Earth Society 
“Zs 
P.O. Box 2533 
24 
Lancaster, CA 93539-2533 
sions in Australia and South Africa. Voliva lost power in 
Zion in the mid-1930s. The Christian Apostolic Church of 
Zion quickly dropped flat-earthism as necessary for salva- 
tion, but there are flat-earthers in Zion to this day. 
Charles Johnson, the present head of the Flat Earth 
Society, corresponded with Voliva just before the latter’s 
death in 1942, but it was not Johnson who revived the 
modern flat-earth movement. That honor fell to an Eng- 
lishman, the late Samuel Shenton, who helped organize 
the International Flat Earth Society in Britain in 1956. 
Shenton got the Flat Earth Society some press, but most 
of it was negative. Before he died in 1971, it was Shen- 
ton’s last wish that the mantle of leadership should pass to 
Johnson, his most active and enthusiastic member. 
Johnson has tried to move flat-earthism away from its 
Bible-thumping image. The Flat Earth News, which 
Johnson edits, emphasizes facts, such as the fact that bod- 
ies of still water (like the Salton Sea) are flat. In keeping 
with zetetic tradition, he also blasts the theory of evolu- 
tion. Johnson does not, however, align himself with the 
“scientific creationists"; he considers them hypocrites 
who claim to defend the Bible while trying to destroy it 
with the globe. (Worse still are the modern geocentrists— 
creationists who reject both Copernicus and Darwin but 
retain the globe!) 
The Flat Earth Society still has religious associations. 
It is also incorporated as the Covenant Peoples Church, 
which shares the same address (see review, this page). 
Neither organization proselytizes, however, and people 
who write to the Flat Earth Society are not inundated with 
begging letters like those sent by television evangelists. 
Johnson cares little for money and less about making con- 
verts. He recalls that the Bible speaks of Two Witnesses. 
He and his wife Marjory witness to the world; let them 
accept who will. 
Recommended Reading 
For readers wishing to follow up on flat-earth literature, the 
situation is bleak. Flat-earth literature is extremely scarce. 
Much that has been written about the flat-earthers is shallow or 
misinformed. The following are reliable. 
Martin Gardner. 
1957. Fads and Fallacies in the Name of 
Sci- 
ence. (Second edition.) New York: Dover Publications. 
Chapter 2 deals with Voliva. (See review, p. 199.) 
John Michell. 1984. Eccentric Lives and Peculiar Notions. 
London: Thames and Hudson. One chapter discusses British 
flat-earthers in some depth and with admirable accuracy. (See 
review, p. 92.) 
Samuel Birley Rowbotham. 
1873. Earth Not a Globe. London: 
John B. Day. The second edition of the foundation work of 
modern flat-earthism. 
Robert J. Schadewald. 
1978. “He Knew Earth Is Round but His 
Proof Fell Flat.” Smithsonian, April 1978, pp. 101-109. A 
description of the wager between 
John Hampden and Alfred 
Russel Wallace. 
Robert J. Schadewald. 
1981. “Scientific Creationism, Geocen- 
tricity, and the Flat Earth.” Skeptical Inquirer, Winter 1981-82, 
pp. 41-48. Shows that all three views are grounded in scripture. 
Robert J. Schadewald. 1980. “The Flat-Out Truth.” Science 
Digest, July 1980, pp. 58-63. Interview with Charles Johnson. 
