Re a 
ae 
DAIE = 
_— Pinnacles of pulpdom: 
Palmer-edited issues of 
Amazing and Fantastic 
from the 1940s. 
writing stories for the pulp magazines in the 
1930s, saw the situation as a chance to break 
into the “slicks” (better quality magazines 
printed on glossy or “‘slick” paper). Although 
he was 44 years old at the time of Pearl Har- 
bor, he served as a Captain in the marines until 
he was in a plane accident. Discharged as Ma- 
jor (it was the practice to promote officers one 
grade when they retired), he was trying to 
resume his writing career when Ralph Daigh, 
an editor at 7rue magazine, assigned him to in- 
vestigate the flying saucer enigma. Thus, at the 
age of 50, Donald E. Keyhoe entered Never- 
Never-Land. His article, ‘““Flying Saucers Are 
Real,” would cause a sensation, and Keyhoe 
would become an instant UFO personality. 
That same year, Palmer decided to put out 
an all-flying saucer issue of Amazing Stories. 
Instead, the publisher demanded that he drop 
the whole subject after, according to Palmer, 
two men in Air Force uniforms visited him. 
Palmer decided to publish a magazine of his 
own. Enlisting the aid of Curtis Fuller, editor 
of a flying magazine, and a few other friends, 
he put out the first issue of Fate in the spring 
of 1948. A digest-sized magazine printed on the 
cheapest paper, Fate was as poorly edited as 
Amazing Stories and had no impact on the 
reading public. But it was the only newsstand 
periodical that carried UFO reports in every 
issue. The Amazing Stories readership sup- 
ported the early issues wholeheartedly. 
In the fall of 1948, the first flying saucer 
convention was held at the Labor Temple on 
14th Street in New York City. Attended by 
about thirty people, most of whom were clut- 
ching the latest issue of Fate, the meeting 
quickly dissolved into a shouting match*. 
Although the flying saucer mystery was only a 
year old, the side issues of government con- 
spiracy and censorship already dominated the 
situation because of their strong emotional ap- 
peal. The U.S. Air Force had been sullenly 
silent throughout 1948 while, unbeknownst to 
the UFO advocates, the boys at Wright- 
Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio were making 
a sincere effort to untangle the mystery. 
When the Air Force investigation failed to turn 
up any tangible evidence (even though the in- 
vestigators accepted the extraterrestrial theory) 
General Hoyt Vandenburg, Chief of the Air 
Force and former head of the CIA, ordered a 
negative report to release to the public. The 
result was Project Grudge, hundreds of pages 
of irrelevant nonsense that was unveiled 
: 
around the time 7rue magazine printed 
Keyhoe’s pro-UFO article. Keyhoe took this 
personally, even though his article was largely 
6 | attended this meeting but my memory of it is vague after 
so many years. I cannot recall who sponsored it. 
E
