T. LOBSANG RAMPA 
THE “LAMA” 
In 1956 the book The Third Eye ap- 
peared, purporting to be the autobiogra- 
phy of a Tibetan Lama named Tuesday 
Lobsang Rampa. Its pages describe many 
wonders, including the opening of Ram- 
pa’s “third eye” in a Tibetan monastery 
on his eighth birthday. Using a steel in- 
strument with pointed teeth at one end, 
one of the lamas bored a hole through the 
flesh and bone of the young boy’s fore- 
head. A “very hard, very clean sliver of 
wood” was inserted into the hole, and 
“there was a blinding flash.” Immedi- 
ately, Rampa had the power to see auras. 
“You are now one of us, Lobsang,” one of 
the lamas told him. “For the rest of your 
life you will see people as they are and 
not as they pretend to be.” 
The Third Eye describes Rampa’s 
many psychic powers (astral projection, 
clairvoyance, levitation, invisibility, past- 
life recall) and adventures, including en- 
counters with abominable snowmen. 
Later volumes recount a stint as a medical 
officer in the Chinese army during World 
War II, and imprisonment in Japanese and 
FROM 
LONDON 
Russian prison camps. The Third Eye did 
remarkably well, selling 300,000 copies 
in a little over a year. Since then, it has 
gone through numerous editions, includ- 
ing sixteen printings in the Ballantine pa- 
perback version alone. At least eighteen 
sequels have appeared, including Doctor 
from Lhasa, The Cave of the Ancients, 
and My Visit to Venus. Even his “wife” 
has gotten into the act, and in recent years 
books have appeared written by “Mama 
San Ra’ab Rampa.” 
There’s only one problem: T. Lobsang 
Rampa never existed. In 1957, a number 
of experts on Tibet who suspected a hoax 
hired a private investigator to track down 
the mysterious lama. Sure enough, it 
turned out that the author was not a Ti- 
betan at all, but an Englishman, Cyril 
Henry Hoskin, the son of a Devon 
plumber. Hoskin, a writer who had never 
visited the Orient, had brought two manu- 
scripts to British literary agent Cyrus 
Brooks: one was a history of women’s 
corsets, the other a fanciful story of a Ti- 
betan lama. Brooks encouraged him to 
SHIRLEY MACLAINE 
OUT 
ON 
A LIMB 
OR OFF ON 
A WHIM? 
In the tradition of T. Lobsang Rampa, 
Carlos Castaneda, and Lynn Andrews, 
Shirley MacLaine has become the most 
popular “magical autobiographer” of all, 
selling over eight million copies of her 
books. Shirley employs a bestselling for- 
mula that takes the reader on a vicarious 
trip into a world of past lives, channeled 
entities, and aliens from UFOs coupled 
with jet-set romances, movie stardom, 
and adventure in exotic places. 
In Out on a Limb, Shirley learns of her 
true mission while in the Andes with 
David, her occult tutor. David’s girlfriend 
Mayan, an alien being from the Pleiades, 
has told him that Shirley must use her 
fame to spread the word about spiritual 
enlightenment to the world. In the TV- 
movie version of the book; we witness 
David performing the miracle that con- 
vinces Shirley of his authenticity: he 
drives his truck on a lonely Peruvian 
mountain road at night with his eyes 
closed, while Shirley, in the passenger’s 
seat, looks on in amazed horror. (Shirley 
says she omitted this scene from the book 
because her readers weren’t ready for it.) 
Dancing in the Light includes a gro- 
cery-list genealogy of Shirley’s past lives, 
remembered with the help of acupunc- 
ture, including the obligatory priestess of 
Atlantis, 
a Tibetan Buddhist monk, an In- 
dian elephant herder, and a voodoo practi- 
tioner. In a scene reminiscent of T. Lobs- 
ang Rampa’s The Third Eye, Shirley de- 
scribes her life as a young Incan boy initi- 
ated into the priesthood by having a hole 
chiseled into his forehead. She also tells 
of her tearful reunion with channel J.Z. 
Knight’s “Ramtha,” a 35,000-year-old en- 
tity who was Shirley’s beloved brother in 
an Atlantean incarnation. (But these days, 
according to Craig Lee in the L.A. Weekly, 
MacLaine has denounced Ramtha.) 
Like other magical autobiographies, 
Shirley’s books cannot be trusted as fac- 
tual accounts. She freely admits that, for 
example, “David” is not a real person, but 
a composite of “four spiritual men” who 
all had extraterrestrial friends. (One of 
these, Charles Hurtado Silva, who claims 
to have been Shirley’s guide in Peru, 
pleaded guilty to fourth-degree sexual 
misconduct in 1987 when two female 
devotees charged he forced them to sleep 
with him. He’s now in the process of 
sueing MacLaine for using his writing in 
her book.) “Gerry,” her surreptitious 
“British” politician lover in Out on a 
Limb, also turns out to be a composite of 
two men (thought to be the Australian 
Andrew Peacock and the assassinated 
work on the latter, and The Third Eye was 
born. The hoax's exposure caused a scan- 
dal in both Europe and the U.S. Time 
magazine ran the full story in its February 
16, 1958 issue. Hoskin, about to publish 
a sequel (Doctor from Lhasa) and worried 
about the negative publicity, maintained 
that his story was true. According to him, 
Rampa’s spirit had “possessed” the body 
of Hoskin, permanently displacing the 
former personality. 
Readers of the series of books Hoskin 
wrote, which read more like occult ad- 
venture stories than metaphysical teach- 
ings, do not seem overly concerned by 
their questionable authenticity, if indeed 
they are aware of it. Hoskin died in 1981, 
but Rampa will no doubt be around for 
years to come. 
—T'S. 
Swedish prime minister, Olof Palme). In 
It’s All in the Playing, Gerry “dies” ina 
car crash, leading writer Martin Gardner 
to wonder how a composite character can 
die “except in fiction.” And as screen- 
writer Ring Lardner, Jr., wrote in the Fall 
1986 Free Inquiry, Shirley’s earlier, 
premystical books contain improbable 
events that, when considered cumula- 
tively, suggest that she is not above “edit- 
ing the facts a bit to improve the story.” 
Like other armchair shamans, Shirley 
has hit the ballroom lecture circuit, charg- 
ing $300 a head for an afternoon of cos- 
mic advice. She is at least as entertaining 
a storyteller as other modern magical 
autobiographers, but shares their common 
flaw: her books are long on “story” and 
short on “fact.” 
—TS. 
