The Great Airship Mystery 
The Great Airship Mystery 
A UFO of the 1890s 
Daniel Cohen 
1981; 256 pp. 
$10.95 
($12.45 postpaid) from: 
Putnam Publishers 
390 Murray Hill Parkway 
East Rutherford, NJ 07073 
800/631-8571 
The modern UFO wave began in 1947, but there was an- 
other, earlier one that began in 1896. 
Yes, 1896! For over a 
year, the North American continent was visited by one or more 
“mystery airships,” which by most accounts resembled some 
sort of motor-driven dirigible (something that hadn’t been in- 
vented yet). Theories abounded, including visitors from an- 
other planet and the work of a mad inventor. 
The Great Air- 
ship Mystery tells the whole fascinating story, reproducing 
original newpaper accounts, tracing the century-old trail of a 
possible mysterious inventor, and generally outlining a curi- 
ous, little-known chapter in American history that has impor- 
tant implications for UFO research today. 
—T.S. 
e 
The incident described was supposed to have taken place 
on April 19 [1897], a high point of airship activity in the Texas 
region. The young man said that he was nearly killed when 
the airship passed overhead, so terrifying the team of horses 
he was driving that he was thrown to the ground. The airship 
then stopped, hovered about a hundred feet from him, and 
two men came down a rope ladder. 
“It was decidedly gratify- 
ing to find that they were plain, every day Americans like my- 
self, and they were very gentlemanly.” The two “plain Ameri- 
cans” apologized for frightening his horses, and offered to 
take him aboard the airship. One of the men was the 
airship’s owner, a Mr. Wilson, no first name given; the other 
was his friend, Scott Warren... 
“| learned that Mr. Wilson (though | doubt if that is his cor- 
rect name) formerly lived in Fort Worth, but | do not remember 
to have ever seen him. He is apparently a young man and has 
the typical face of a genius or an inventor.” 
—————~= 
<< = 
©. — 
~~ 
The UFO Controversy in America 
The most complete, sober, and objective social history of 
UFOs. Included is a thorough overview of the little-known pres- 
age of the modern UFO era, the “Mystery Airship” wave of 
1896-97. Air Force coverups, government investigations, con- 
tactees, and UFO personalities populate the cast of this twen- 
tieth-century drama. 
—T.S. 
e 
In 1959 the Office of Naval Intelligence heard of a woman 
in Maine who claimed to be in contact with space people and 
brought it to the CIA’s attention. Normally the government 
would have ignored this contactee-like case in which the 
woman used the common psychic device of automatic writing. 
But the Canadian government had also heard of this woman, 
and it sent Wilbert Smith, its UFO expert, to interview her. In 
her trance the woman purportedly correctly answered technical 
questions about space flight beyond her knowledge. After 
learning of this, the navy sent two officers to investigate. The 
woman persuaded one of the officers to go into trance himself 
and try to contact the space people. He tried but failed. 
When the two officers returned to Washington, they told 
CIA officials about their experience. The CIA arranged to have 
the officer who unsuccessfully tried to make contact try again 
at CIA headquarters. Six witnesses gathered in the CIA office 
to watch. The officer went into another trance and apparently 
made contact with space people. The other men in the room 
Widely circulated drawing of “Edison’s Airship.” Edison, however, 
never worked on an airship and this drawing was a hoax that 
capitalized on the famous man’s name. 
e 
Sometime between the hours of midnight and six a.m. of 
June 14, 1973, a person or persons unknown sneaked into 
the cemetery in the tiny Texas town of Aurora, and stole a 
tombstone with a crudely carved outline of a UFO on it. The 
tombstone marked the spot at which a “man from Mars” was 
buried after he had been killed when his spaceship crashed 
into a windmill in Aurora. The crash took place on April 17, 
1897, right in the middle of the mysterious airship flap. 
Not content with merely stealing the tombstone, the rob- 
ber or robbers then used “long, slender, pointed, saw tooth 
metal probes,” to work their way down through the hole left by 
the stolen marker. 
In this way they managed to remove metal 
fragments that were known to be buried in the grave. Accord- 
ing to an investigator on the scene, “If they went that far they 
knew what they were after and also must have tried to get 
specimen remains of the occupant’s body, clothing or some- 
thing to identify him by.” The whole grave robbery, said the 
investigator, was handled in “a thoroughly professional” 
manner. 
wanted proof. The officer in a trance said that if they looked 
out the window, they would see a flying saucer. Three men 
rushed to the window and were astonished to see a UFO. Two 
of these men were CIA employees and the third was with the 
Office of Naval Intelligence. At the exact same time, the radar 
center at Washington National Airport reported that its radar 
returns had been blocked out in the direction of the sighting. 
The CIA briefed Major Friend on these developments, and 
Friend sat in on a later trance session. He asked to be kept 
informed if anything else happened, but apparently nothing 
did. Friend thought Duke University’s parapsychology laborato- 
ries should investigate the officer and the woman. But Project 
Blue Book never analyzed the sighting and what the men actu- 
ally did see remains a mystery. The CIA did not treat the inci- 
dent seriously yet took punitive actions against the men in- 
volved. 
It made sure they were transferred to other positions. 
As far as is known, the government never followed up on the 
sighting or the radar blackout. 
The UFO Controversy in America 
David Michael Jacobs 
: 
1975; 384 pp. 
OUT OF PRINT 
Indiana University Press 
Bloomington, IN 
SETR
EMIT
ATT
PATS
PAT
TIE 
TTT
ard
oT In
aTTS
ECEO
SEE
SES
AL
EE
T
PERC
EEE
PR 
RCE 
EE
ET
