When Prophecy Fails 
Using students as “participant-observers” (that is, aca- 
demic spies), the authors of this fascinating book—three so- 
ciologists from a midwestern university—followed the individ- 
ual members of a middle-class cabal of end-of-the-worlders 
from the earliest phases of their belief to the appointed day 
when a UFO mother ship was supposed to come and rapture 
them away. 
Although the events depicted are over thirty-five years 
old, the book describes an amalgam of beliefs that is sur- 
prisingly popular today: twentieth-century science fiction 
blended with nineteenth-century occultism, information re- 
ceived from entities via automatic writing and channeling, 
and spacemen/saviors in flying saucers. 
The only thing miss- 
ing to bring it up to date are those ubiquitous contemporary 
talismans: crystals. 
The characters in this tale are delightfully limned, and 
their self-supporting delusions build to an inevitable disap- 
pointment that is both pathetic and touching. 
What is most 
troubling about them is not their strange beliefs, but their oth- 
erwise apple-pie conventionality. 
These odd folks are clearly 
normal enough to be your neighbors (and if you live in Califor- 
nia, they probably are). 
—Stanley Young 
e 
Sananda informed Mrs. Keech on July 8 that “The Guardi- 
ans are beings of the UN [intelligence of the Creator; mind of 
the High Self] who have risen to the density seven or eight, 
who are UN as the Oneness with the Creator, who can and do 
create by the UN the casement or vehicle they chose to use 
in the seen.” Another Guardian, on May 14, speaking from 
“the Seventh Sector Density of Creton” (presumably a planet 
in the “constellation of Cerus”) explained: 
“We are in the 
avagada [space ship] of light force propulsion. We are like 
the human beings of Earth and have much in common; 
though there are millions of years difference in our cultures, 
we are still brothers. What we enjoy as natural everyday en- 
joyments, you of the world cannot yet imagine.” Sananda 
briefly commented on the planet Clarion, “It is a beautiful 
place to live. We have weather—snow and rain. We adjust 
our bodies to the temperature.” 
He described the diet of the 
Guardians as “the bread of increase, which is like a snow- 
flake.” 
¢ 
About two hours after the formal meeting had started, it 
broke up, for refreshments, into small groups of two or three. 
Some discussed spiritual transmigration, others college foot- 
ball. Some of the girls served the tea and cake—a hand- 
some monument covered with pink and blue frosting in the 
design of a “mother ship” and three small flying saucers, 
bearing the words “Up in the Air.” One or two of the mem- 
bers seemed to be of an experimental turn of mind, for they 
had brought a ouija board which they attempted to use. 
Dr. 
Armstrong warned them that it wouldn’t work because the 
“charges” around the house were “positive” whereas the 
Ouija board was “negatively charged,” in addition to being of 
“low vibration,” again unlike the atmosphere of the house. 
Later, a few of the young people attempted levitation of one 
another, though this venture also failed. 
When Prophecy Fails 
Leon Festinger, Henry W. 
Riecken, & Stanley Schachter 
1964; 253 pp. 
$7.50 
($9.00 postpaid) from: 
J.B. Lippincott 
Route 3, Box 20-B 
Hagerstown, MD 21740 
800/638-3030 
16 
will be the beginning of a new civilization.” The date of 
evacuation was slated for December 20, one day before 
the cataclysm. 
Few editors took notice of this eccentric press release, 
although it did appear in the newspaper of a small univer- 
sity town. Three sociologists caught sight of it and 
jumped at the chance to investigate firsthand this group of 
people proclaiming the End of the World. The professors 
used students who posed as interested parties (“‘partici- 
pant-observers’’) to record the inner workings of these ec- 
centric believers. 
The book that was born of this effort, When Prophecy 
Fails, is a wonderful insight into how this group came to 
believe their peculiar gospel, and how they went about 
spreading the word of disaster. The book also examines 
how the believers came to terms with the fact that, as the 
title indicates, their prophecies failed. 
The eschatology this group espoused was thoroughly 
modern. In fact, their scenario of the cataclysm most 
closely resembled a bad 1950s science fiction movie. Ac- 
cording to Sananda, the entity/spokesman for a higher 
race of beings who were to appear as spacemen, flying 
saucers would come on the appointed day to take away 
the true believers to the safety of their own planet. (Per- 
haps the fact that the central members of the group had 
dabbled in Scientology and Theosophy explains certain 
science-fiction aspects of their belief system.) 
The group’s original idea of going to a mountaintop 
on the eve of the cataclysm was eventually abandoned in 
favor of being picked up at the house by flying saucers, 
"pea-pod ships” sent down from a great "Mother Ship." 
Theirs was a truly suburban apocalypse. Dr. Armstrong 
(all the names in the book were changed), the central 
theoretician of the group, was on good terms with these 
spacemen, calling his future saviors “the boys upstairs.” 
The authors of When Prophecy Fails describe the ex- 
acting preparations that the group of a dozen believers 
made for the arrival of the flying saucers. They’d been 
told through the housewife/channel that metal would pro- 
duce severe burns in the flying saucers. (Could this be 
some subconscious throwback to the rejection of metal in 
the Ghost Dance?) “Dr. Armstrong was busy ripping the 
zipper out of the fly of his trousers, while Mark Post ener- 
getically removed the eyelets from a pair of his shoes. 
Frank Novik was wearing a piece of rope in place of the 
belt that usually encircled his waist, as was Clyde Wilton.” 
On December 17th the group assembled outside the 
suburban meeting house to wait, shivering in the cold, for 
“the boys upstairs to come.”” They never came, but this 
setback caused no disappointment: it was only a drill, 
they were subsequently informed. In fact, disconfirma- 
tion only fueled their efforts to proselytize and spread the 
word. The group stepped up their efforts to inform the 
press of the imminent demise of the world, and their 
house became a media circus. 
At last, on the evening of December 21, the small 
group of believers assembled to await their deliverance. 
A horde of newsmen covered the event while a crowd of 
some two hundred taunted the group, who stood singing 
Christmas carols in the freezing drizzle. Huddled to- 
