Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, born 
Rajneesh Chandra Mohan in a small town 
in India in 1931 of Jain parents, took seri- 
ously the Jain belief in anekantavada, the 
many-faceted nature of the truth. Raj- 
neesh studied the varied major religious 
traditions from which he absorbed a vari- 
ety of teachings. He earned his Master’s 
degree in philosophy and began a teach- 
ing career. . . 
. In 1966 he resigned his 
post at the University of Jabalpur and 
became a full-time spiritual teacher. . . . 
During the 1970s he encountered 
Western humanistic psychology and ab- 
sorbed several of its emphases, including 
the high value on self-expression and the 
release of inner emotions as a means to 
personal freedom. These emphases and 
the techniques used to promote them 
were integrated into the Indian teachings 
offered by Rajneesh and became embod- 
led in his most distinctive practice, 
dynamic meditation. ... 
Rajneesh came to the United States 
in 1981, and after a short stay in New 
Jersey, he moved to the 64,000 acre 
Big Muddy Ranch near Antelope, 
Oregon. The ranch became the site of 
a proposed new city, Rajneeshpuram. 
Older residents and eventually many 
Oregonians began to oppose the pro- 
posed plan to bring four to six thousand 
people to the new city by the end of the 
century. As the controversy grew, the 
entire plan came to an abrupt end 
when, in 1985, Rajneesh was charged 
with immigration fraud. He was fined 
and deported from the United States. 
His former chief assistant, Ma Anand 
Sheela (Silverman) was also charged on 
a number of felony counts. Some of his 
American followers are also under 
indictment and awaiting trial. The 
center in Oregon has been offered for 
sale, and the goals of Rajneeshpuram 
abandoned. The movement, however, 
has remained intact. 
—Encyclopedia of American Religions 
upon pictures of Kennedy. 
In 1972 Farley McGivern organized a 
John F. Kennedy Memorial Temple in Los Angeles to provide 
headquarters for the movement. 
To believers, Kennedy is 
thought of as a god. McGivern believed that Kennedy gave his 
life for his people, to warn them of the evil around them. 
The existence of this movement has been known only through 
the occasional encounters by reporters with people who claim to 
be a part of it. To most people involved in it, their belief is a very 
private matter which is rarely shared with others, even close 
friends. 
Hence, little information about it exists. 
—Encyclopedia of American Religions (Supplement) 
e 
NOYES, John Humphrey (September 3, 1811, Brattleboro, 
Vermont—April 13, 1886, Niagara Falls, Canada); married Harriet 
A. Horton, June 1838; education: 
Dartmouth University, 1826- 
30; Andover Theological Seminary, 1931-32; Yale Divinity School, 
1832-34. 
John Humphrey Noyes, the founder of the Oneida Community, 
one of the most successful of the nineteenth-century communes, 
was born to a prominent Vermont family. 
His agnostic father, a 
successful businessman, served one term in Congress before re- 
tiring at the age of fifty-three. 
After retirement he settled in Put- 
ney, Vermont. 
At the age of nine, young John entered a private 
school. 
Six years later, in 1826, he began studies at Dartmouth 
with the idea of becoming a lawyer. 
Noyes’s law career ended with his conversion in 1831 and 
his resultant decision to enter the ministry. He entered the semi- 
nary at Andover but transferred to Yale after his first year. At New 
Haven he joined the Free Church and also became attracted to 
perfectionism, the belief that humans could, in some measure, 
become perfect in this life. Noyes began to identify with the per- 
fectionists and traveled throughout New England preaching his 
ideas. 
In 1836 he settled in Putney and began to gather a group 
of followers, the first members of which were his own family. 
In 
1837 he started The Witness, as a periodical to spread his 
views. Noyes believed that the second coming had already oc- 
curred and that man could thus be perfect; that once saved he 
could not fall from grace; and that church authority should not be 
allowed to overrule personal conviction. 
Noyes had also developed some radical views on marriage. 
Some of these appeared in August 1837 in a letter published in 
The Battle Axe and Weapons of War, a periodical published by 
T.R. Gates. 
In this letter he declared that in heaven there will be 
no marriage and that sexual relations would not be restrained by 
law. The letter made him the center of controversy, and to punc- 
tuate his response that he was discussing heaven, not earth, he 
proposed marriage to a woman who had experienced sanctifica- 
tion while reading one of Noyes’s writings. They were married the 
next year. 
The next nine years were spent in spreading his views and 
gathering a close-knit cadre of followers around him at Putney. 
He published his first book, The Way of Holiness, which contained 
his collected articles. 
The Witness (1837-43) was followed by 
The Perfectionist (1843-44). 
In 1841 he created the Society for 
Inquiry as a covenant group that adhered to Noyes’s views. 
In 
1844 they formalized the communal nature of their life together 
with an incorporation that was widened to include all the adults 
the next year. Twenty-eight adults agreed to share work, living 
quarters, and finances. 
In 1846 Noyes took the first step toward the complex mar- 
riage system he was later to develop. 
Noyes, his wife, and Mary 
and George Cragin agreed that it was God’s will for them to share 
marriage partners. Two more couples, Noyes’s sisters and their 
husbands, joined the arrangement before the year was out. Un- 
fortunately, word soon leaked out to the community; in the face of 
the resulting hostility, Noyes was forced to flee. 
Noyes reassembled his followers at Oneida, New York, where 
another group of his followers had begun a second community. 
He assumed leadership of what was to become his school for 
perfecting character. 
By 1851, under Noyes’s theocratic leader- 
ship, about 275 people had come to reside at Oneida and its sev- 
eral branch communities. 
At Oneida Noyes attempted to put into practice all of his per- 
fectionist ideals, the most controversial of which was his system 
of complex marriage. Complex marriage involved the controlled 
sexual relations of a community where each male was considered 
married to each female. 
Noyes also developed a practice of birth 
control that he called “male continence,” by which males con- 
trolled the emission of semen and prevented the production of 
unwanted children. 
(Noyes had been motivated to develop the 
practice, also known as kerazza, after his wife had borne five still- 
born children.) 
The Oneida community functioned well for one generation and 
was relatively free of persecution until the mid-1870s. 
At this 
time, when Noyes’s health, particularly his hearing, began to fail, 
a group of primarily young adults who no longer believed in 
Noyes’s perfectionist ideas emerged within the community. 
In 
the face of a crisis in which those who opposed Noyes’s authority 
joined with outsiders bent upon suppressing the “immoral” com- 
munity, Noyes fled to Canada in June 1879. A few months later 
the community voted to abandon complex marriage. 
Although he kept in touch, Noyes never returned. 
He settled 
on the Canadian side of Niagara Falls and lived out his days sur- 
rounded by a small group of his most dedicated followers. 
The members of the community settled down into more con- 
ventional lives. 
In 1880 the members reorganized as the Oneida 
Community, Limited, a joint-stock company, and continued to op- 
erate the community's industries, the most well-known being its 
silverworks. 
—Biographical Dictionary of American Cult and Sect Leaders 
San 
Francisco 
Chronicle 
/Chris 
Stewart 
