Two of the many photos from George Leonard's 
crank masterpiece, Somebody Else is on the Moon. 
(Above) According to Leonard, the arrow here points 
to a ‘vehicle resting inside anomalous rayed crater 
in Oceanus Procellarum.’’ (Below) Leonard claims 
the arrows in this photo indicate ‘‘several small 
craters in the process of being worked with marking 
crosses on their lips and spraying drones inside.”’ 
__ 
statistical approach to the study of psychic phe- 
nomena in the 1930s, and it still dominates the 
experimental design of modern parapsychologists, 
who seem to delight in devising new ways to make 
their experiments more complex and the results 
more confusing. As Albert Einstein wrote of 
Rhine’s experiments in 1946: “I regard it as very 
strange that the spatial distance between the 
[telepathic] subjects has no relevance to the 
190 
statistical [ESP] experiments. This suggests to me 
avery strong indication that a nonrecognized source 
of systematic errors may have been involved.” 
This data-to-noise ratio can be applied to many 
popular paranormal claims, such as the Shroud of 
Turin. The Shroud is an ancient cloth bearing the 
image of a mournful looking man. It is widely 
claimed to be the burial cloth of Jesus, imprinted 
by a miracle, though it turned up in a church in 
the |4th century and is not known to have had a 
prior history. A team of modern Christian scientists 
has produced volumes of analyses of the Shroud in 
an attempt to demonstrate its extraordinary char- 
acteristics. But recently, secular researchers found 
that the image contained a red pigment commonly 
used by |4th-century artists (a conclusion that 
few newspapers bothered to report — the public 
always prefers a mystery). Even before this dis- 
covery, the Shroud could have been evaluated by 
the data-to-noise ratio guideline. 
An immediate cause for suspicion is the presence 
of whole museum loads of clearly false relics from 
the Middle Ages, when practically every church 
had to have a wood chip from the True Cross, a 
plate from the Last Supper, or one of Jesus’ sandals 
— any single item of which would be as hard to 
evaluate as the Shroud itself. The Shroud appeared 
in the middle of all this noise. Ray N. Rogers, a 
leading Shroud advocate, once said that he could 
hardly think of a better way for the deity to prove 
His existence to a skeptical modern world than to 
leave us the Shroud. | can think of plenty of better 
ways, perhaps something clean and clear like ma- 
terializing as a figure 50 miles tall and speaking 
loud enough to rattle the earth. The Shroud was a 
pretty forlorn miracle by comparison, lost in the 
trivia of the Middle Ages like a needle in a haystack 
— aspeck of dubious data extracted from a sea 
of noise. 
Cloaks of noise by themselves are not proof of 
the Shroud’s inauthenticity — nor that mind 
power doesn’t occasionally tilt a zirconium die, 
nor that the moon is not covered with artificial 
objects just a little smaller than the best photo- 
graphs can show. “Noise’’ in information theory 
means, literally, that you just don’t know. Data 
swamped in noise are unworthy of belief, and it is 
suspicious that evidence for the paranormal is 
consistently cloaked in this way. 
3. 
@ 
Watch out for “‘believers.’’ Watch out for stories 
told and retold. Francis Bacon said, “Man prefers 
to believe what he prefers to be true.’’ A believer 
doesn’t have to be a zealot. Anyone qualifies who 
possesses imagination enough to get excited at the 
idea that the mysterious crashing sounds in the 
woods just beyond the campfire might be Bigfoot. 
