ef 
MAGAZINE 
SARUARY: 
1868. 
ates! feat 
ability to sustain the expectation of a new beginning just 
around the corner is akin to the fundamentalist Christians’ 
inextinguishable faith in an imminent Armageddon. 
Influences and forerunners for the New Age abound, 
ranging from the Zen preoccupations of the ’50s “beat” 
movement to the revival of witchcraft in England follow- 
ing World War II. However, when all is said and done, 
the single group with the most influence on today’s New 
Age terrain is the little-known Theosophical Society. 
Most people have never heard of the Theosophical 
Society (T.S.), while those few who have rubbed elbows 
with it tend to regard the T.S. as an aging holdover from 
an earlier era. Certainly anyone who has happened to 
stop by at the stately T.S. headquarters in Wheaton, IIli- 
nois, during the last twenty years will have been im- 
pressed with the quiet atmosphere in the grand brick 
headquarters building, where a seemingly endless supply 
of devoted octogenarians tiptoe around and whisper to 
each other in numerous offices. I know I was impressed 
when I paid a visit to the venerable San Francisco T.S. 
Lodge in the early ’70s, stuck off in a corner several 
floors up in the downtown Native Sons of the Golden 
West building. Stepping out of the elevator and walking 
through the deserted and dimly lit anteroom into the an- 
cient meeting hall, I happened upon three or four elderly 
ladies gathered around an old untuned piano, singing un- 
identifiable hymns of an inspirational nature. This may 
be as close as I’ve ever gotten to actual time travel, and 
the sensation was rather unnerving, believe me. 
Such appearances can be deceiving, however, for over 
the years the T.S. has played a pivotal role in fostering the 
openness to alternative spirituality, Eastern religions, and 
psychic powers that are associated with the present New 
Age movement. It has also seen more than its share of 
grandstanding, schisms, sex scandals, and just plain ec- 
centricity. For the uninitiated, what follows is a short his- 
(Left) The term “New Age” has been used In the titles of a number of occult publications since the 1800s, including The New Age Magazine, founded at 
the turn of the century, and the New Age Interpreter, which began publication In 1940. (Center) Madame Helena Petrovna Blavatsky (1831-1891), co- 
founder of the Theosophical Society. (Right) The Theosophical Society’s other co-founder, Colonel Henry Steel Olcott (1832-1907), along with Annie 
Wood Besant (1847-1933) and Charles Webster Leadbeater (1854-1934), who assumed the leadership from Blavatsky and Olcott. 
tory of the T.S. and its considerable influence on the rise 
of modern occultism. 
The Theosophical Society was founded in New York 
in the fall of 1875 by a group of solid middle-class citi- 
zens whose mutual interest in the occult had brought them 
to the evening salons held by the mysterious Russian emi- 
gré, Helena Petrovna Blavatsky. Madame Blavatsky (or 
H.P.B., as she was often referred to) was a portly woman 
with a commanding presence and a larger-than-life repu- 
tation. Her earlier exploits were said to have included a 
stint as a circus equestrian in Constantinople, piano teach- 
er in Paris, factory manager in Tiflis, and traveler to India, 
Tibet, and Egypt. Upon her arrival in the U.S. in 1873, 
she immersed herself in spiritualist circles where she met 
Col. Henry Olcott, who was to become her primary col- 
laborator in matters esoteric over the next two decades. 
From almost the start of her sojourn on the East Coast, 
H.P.B. claimed to be in touch with distant adepts and se- 
cret societies. First there was a mysterious spirit named 
“John King,” whom she contacted through her mediumis- 
tic talents. King was shortly followed by the Brotherhood 
of Luxor, supposedly “an Egyptian group of the Universal 
Mystic Brotherhood,” as H.P.B. explained to Olcott. 
However, this group was soon succeeded by the two Ti- 
betan adepts (usually referred to as the “Masters” or the 
‘““Mahatmas’’) known as Koot Hoomi and Morya. These 
Masters were to become the special guides of the T.S., 
communicating telepathically through Blavatsky and via 
mysterious letters sent to various T.S. members. The 
Masters would also psychically dictate H.P.B.’s two 
enormous books, /sis Unveiled and The Secret Doctrine. 
In 1878 Col. Olcott made contact with a recently 
formed Hindu reform group in India, the Arya Samaj. 
Their attention turned to the East by this contact and by 
the Masters, who supposedly lived in Tibet, Olcott and 
H.P.B. set sail for India at the end of the year. For the 
23 
