Ses the Php Some. 
Swuuat ths teizewe 
= 
dered and Keyhoe took it over. And Ray 
Palmer launched a new newsstand publication 
called Flying Saucers From Other Worlds. In 
the early issues he hinted that he knew some 
important “secret.” After tantalizing his 
readers for months, he finally revealed that 
UFOs came from the center of the earth and 
the phrase From Other Worlds was dropped 
from the title. His readers were variously en- 
thralled, appalled, and galled by the revelation. 
For seven years, from 1957 to 1964, ufology in 
the United States was in total limbo. This was 
the Dark Age. Keyhoe and NICAP were buried 
in Washington, vainly tilting at windmills and 
trying to initiate a congressional investigation 
into the UFO situation. 
A few hundred UFO believers clustered around 
Coral Lorenzen’s Aerial Phenomena Research 
Organization (APRO). And about 2,000 teen- 
agers bought Flying Saucers from newsstands 
each month. Palmer devoted much space to 
UFO clubs, information exchanges, and 
letters-to-the-editor. So it was Palmer, and 
Palmer alone, who kept the subject alive dur- 
ing the Dark Age and lured new youngsters 
into ufology. He published his strange books 
about Deros, and ran a mail-order business 
selling the UFO books that had been published 
after the various waves of the 1950s. His part- 
ners in the Fate venture bought him out, so 
he was able to devote his full time to his 
UFO enterprises. 
Palmer had set up a system similar to sci-fi 
fandom, but with himself as the nucleus. He 
had come a long way since his early days and 
the Jules Verne Prize Club. He had been instru- 
mental in inventing a whole system of belief, a 
frame of reference — the magical world of 
Shaverism and flying saucers — and he had set 
himself up as the king of that world. Once 
the belief system had been set up it became 
self-perpetuating. The people beleaguered by 
mysterious rays were joined by the wishful 
thinkers who hoped that living, compassionate 
Early issues of Fate 
magazine, created 
by Ray Palmer as a 
vehicle for articles 
on the occult and 
unexplained. The 
first issue (Spring 
1948, far left) de- 
voted 44 pages to 
flying saucers, at 
that time a topic 
only a few months 
old. 
beings existed out there beyond the stars. They 
didn’t need any real evidence. The belief itself 
was enough to sustain them. 
When a massive new UFO wave — the biggest 
one in U.S. history — struck in 1964 and con- 
tinued unabated until 1968, APRO and NICAP 
were caught unawares and unprepared to deal 
with renewed public interest. Palmer increased 
the press run of Flying Saucers and reached 
out to a new audience. Then, in the 1970s, a 
new Dark Age began. October 1973 produced 
a flurry of well-publicized reports and then the 
doldrums set in. NICAP strangled in its own 
confusion and dissolved in a puddle of apathy, 
along with scores of lesser UFO organizations. 
Donald Keyhoe, a very elder statesman, lives in 
seclusion in Virginia. Most of the hopeful con- 
tactees and UFO investigators of the 1940s and 
50s have passed away. Palmer’s Flying Saucers 
quietly self-destructed in 1975, but he continued 
with Search until his death in the summer of 
1977. Richard Shaver is gone but the Shaver 
Mystery still has a few adherents. Yet the sad 
truth is that none of this might have come 
about if Howard Browne hadn’t scoffed at that 
letter in that dingy editorial office in that 
faraway city so long ago. 
Following Ray Palmer’ s death, his wife 
Marjorie managed Palmer Publications until 
a few years ago, when she sold the business. 
The new owners carry on, Still publishing 
Search and Space World magazines, as well 
as books about the Shaver Mystery, UFOs, 
and the paranormal. Their address is Palmer 
Publications, P. O. Box 296, Amherst, WI 
54406. Meanwhile, the Shaver Mystery tradi- 
tion endures in literature available from 
Health Research, P.O. Box 70, Mokelumne 
Hill, CA 95245. 
“Amazing” and “Fantastic” are trademarks owned by TSR, 
Inc. Covers and illustrations are reproduced with their per- 
mission. Fate covers are reproduced with the permission of 
Clark Publishing Company. 
145 
