conditions under which I had worked were wrong. I had 
tested large groups of subjects in boring classroom envi- 
ronments. Perhaps that was the problem. 
HARLES HONORTON, A 
researcher at Maimonides 
: 
Medical Center in Brooklyn, 
had published some highly successful experiments using 
the “ganzfeld” technique. The idea behind the ganzfeld is 
to cut the subject off from patterned sensory input by 
feeding white noise into his ears and placing halved Ping- 
Pong balls over his eyes. He then lies comfortably for 
half an hour or more, recounting all the imagery that en- 
ters his mind. Meanwhile an agent is looking at a picture 
in another room and after the session is over the subject 
tries to select this target picture from among a group of 
others. 
Not only was Honorton successful with this procedure 
but Carl Sargent at Cambridge was replicating the effect. 
Perhaps it would be best, I thought, if I placed my subjects 
in this specially psi-conducive setting. So I set about 
doing my own ganzfeld experiments. 
I began getting lots of “hits.” In one session, with my 
brother as agent, I seemed to pick up on almost every de- 
tail of the picture he was looking at. But the overall re- 
sults of the experiments were again at chance. Those 
close correspondences were, I am sure, just the sort of co- 
incidences you would expect to encounter in a series of 
such sessions. It is for this reason that we need statistics 
when evaluating our experiments. My statistics were tell- 
ing me there was nothing more than chance—and perhaps 
the illogical human mind—at work. 
Out-oHBody 
I now seemed to have exhausted the commonly pro- 
posed “‘excuses”’ for experimental failure in parapsychol- 
ogy and I was still no nearer to understanding why others 
got psi in their experiments and I didn’t. One last argu- 
ment was handed to me by the successful experimenters 
interested in my work. Perhaps it was a “psi-mediated 
experimenter effect.” 
This suggests that “‘psi-conducive” experimenters— 
those with a good track record in parapsychology—are 
able to put their own psi into their results, regardless of 
the subjects’ capacities. Either they force ESP onto their 
subjects or they elicit psi from their subjects for psycho- 
logical reasons. By contrast, a “psi-inhibitory” experi- 
menter suppresses or fails to elicit his subjects’ ESP capa- 
bilities during an experiment. I was obviously a psi-inhib- 
itory experimenter. But why? 
Friends told me it was because I didn’t sufficiently be- 
lieve in ESP. Well, what could I do about that? It was 
clear to me that I was originally a very strong believer in 
psi, although, of course, others had only my word for that! 
Yet my results had been just as close to chance in the be- 
ginning as they were now. So that didn’t seem to explain 
it. Nor could I conduct an experiment in which I “be- 
lieved” for half the subjects and “not-believed”’ for the 
other half. There was, however, something I could do. I 
could test something I did believe in. 
During this time in my life I had been reading the 
Tarot cards for about eight years. They seemed to work. 
Whenever I did a reading for someone, including persons 
I had never seen before, I found myself telling them 
things that I couldn’t possibly have known. They were 
often amazed and asked me how on earth I did it. I didn’t 
know. Something was obviously going on and I believed 
it could be paranormal. So I set up a simple experiment. 
I wanted to duplicate as nearly as possible a normal 
EXPeKrences 
Nearly 20 percent of all people claim 
to have experienced leaving their bodies, 
seeing things from above, and even “fly- 
ing.” Some were relaxing or meditating 
when this occurred, others were suffering 
from illness or severe shock, and some 
were just carrying on with their normal 
lives. A very few claim to have seen or 
even to have interacted with things in the 
physical world at a distance from where 
their physical body was "parked." 
The occult theory of "astral projec- 
tion” assumes that something—an “astral 
body,” soul, or spirit—actually leaves the 
body and travels to other worlds, and that 
this spirit goes on to survive when the 
body is dead. 
Parapsychologists prefer the term 
“out-of-body experiences” (or OBEs), 
which doesn’t presume any theory, and 
seek to find out whether anything really 
does leave the body during OBEs. 
72 
Early 20th-century experimenters 
weighed the bodies of the dying and pho- 
tographed projected astral bodies, but as 
research techniques improved the early 
findings were no longer considered reli- 
able. Recently parapsychologists have 
concealed targets from people who can 
have OBEs at will and asked them to ob- 
serve the targets OB and to describe what 
they saw. One apparent success was 
achieved, but generally these experiments 
have been failures. All kinds of instru- 
ments measuring radiation, temperature, 
or weight have failed to detect any astral 
body. 
The theory of another body is in any 
case challenged by questioning what it is 
made of, how it could interact with the 
physical world (reminiscent of all mind- 
body problems), how it could see without 
eyes or affect anything without leaving 
any traces. 
All we now know about OBEs sug- 
gests that nothing really leaves the body. 
In normal perception a model or represen- 
tation of the world is built by the brain 
and seems real—likewise, the brain con- 
structs a model of self,a “self-image.” 
But what if this image is disruptedinan __ 
illness or accident, or even deliberately 
_ 
during meditation? In striving to get back 
to normal, the brain may need to use an 
image from memory—but memory im- 
ages are often in “bird’s eye view [EO 
such an image takes over as “reality,” 
then an OBE has occurred. The whole _ 
normal world of the senses is replaced by 
_ 
one constructed from memory and i 
imagi- 
nation. 
especially good at visualizing the world 
as it would appear from “‘out-of-the- 
_ 
body’—a prediction that has been con- 
firmed by experiment. 
If this view is correct, OBEs provide 
no evidence for survival after death. 
They are natural experiences tobe en- 
joyed, not feared. If there is no astral 
body, you cannot get lost on the astral 
_ 
planes—so enjoy your OBEs! 
~~ Susan Blackmore 
This explains why objects and situ- 
ations seen OB often don't match reality 
and why the astral body is undetectable. 
__ 
It also predicts that OOBErs shouldbe 
