Skeptics and Pseudo-skeptics 
ver the years, I have decried the 
misuse of the term “skeptic” when 
used to refer to all critics of anom- 
aly claims. Alas, the label has been thus 
misapplied by both proponents and critics 
of the paranormal. Sometimes users of the 
term have distinguished between so-called 
“soft” versus “hard” skeptics, and I in part 
revived the term “‘zetetic” because of the 
term’s misuse; but I now think the prob- 
lems created go beyond mere terminology, 
and matters need to be set right. Since 
“skepticism” properly refers to doubt rath- 
er than denial—nonbelief rather than be- 
lief—critics who take the negative rather 
than an agnostic position but still call 
themselves “skeptics” are actually pseudo- 
skeptics and have, I believe, gained a false 
advantage by usurping that label. 
In science, the burden of proof falls 
upon the claimant; and the more extraordi- 
nary a claim, the heavier is the burden of 
proof demanded. The true skeptic takes an 
agnostic position, one that says the claim 
is not proved rather than disproved. He as- 
serts that the claimant has not borne the 
burden of proof and that science must con- 
tinue to build its cognitive map of reality 
without incorporating the extraordinary 
claim as a new “fact.” Since the true skep- 
tic does not assert a claim, he has no bur- 
den to prove anything. He just goes on us- 
ing the established theories of “conven- 
tional science” as usual. But if a critic as- 
serts that there is evidence for disproof, 
that he has a negative hypothesis (e.g., the 
conjecture that a seeming psi result was 
actually due to an artifact), he is making a 
claim and therefore also has to bear a bur- 
den of proof. Sometimes, such negative 
claims by critics are also quite extraordi- 
nary (e.g., that a UFO was actually a giant 
plasma or that someone in a psi experi- 
ment was cued via an abnormal ability to 
Zetetic Scholar 
The above piece appeared as an editorial in the August 1987 
issue of the Zetetic Scholar. ("Zetetic" means "skeptically inquir- 
ing.") This judicious journal is published on an irregular schedule 
by the Center for Scientific Anomalies Research, headquartered at 
by Marcello Truzzi 
hear a high pitch others with normal ears 
would fail to notice), in which case the 
negative claimant also may have to bear a 
heavier burden of proof than might nor- 
mally be expected. 
Critics who assert negative claims but 
who mistakenly call themselves “skeptics” 
often act as though they (as would be ap- 
propriate only for the agnostic or true skep- 
tic) have no burden of proof placed on 
them at all. A result of this is that many 
critics seem to feel it is only necessary to 
present a case for their counter-claims 
based upon plausibility rather than empiri- 
cal evidence. Thus, if a subject in a psi ex- 
periment can be shown to have had an op- 
portunity to cheat, many critics seem to as- 
sume not merely that he probably did cheat 
but that he must have, regardless of what 
may be the complete absence of evidence 
that he did so cheat (and sometimes ignor- 
ing evidence of the subject’s past reputation 
for honesty). Similarly, improper randomi- 
zation procedures are sometimes assumed 
to be the cause of a subject’s high psi 
scores even though all that has been estab- 
lished is the possibility of such an artifact 
having been the real cause. Of course, the 
evidential weight of the experiment is 
greatly reduced when we discover an open- 
ing in the design that would allow an arti- 
fact to confound the results. Discovering 
an opportunity for error should make such 
experiments less evidential and usually un- 
convincing; it usually disproves the claim 
that the experiment was “airtight” against 
error, but it does not disprove the anomaly 
claim. Showing evidence is unconvincing 
is not grounds for completely dismissing it. 
If a critic asserts that the result was due to 
artifact X, that critic then has the burden of 
proof to demonstrate that artifact X can and 
probably did produce such results under 
such circumstances. Admittedly, in some 
cases the appeal to mere plausibility that 
an artifact produced the result may be so 
great that nearly all would accept the argu- 
ment (e.g., when we learn that someone 
known to have cheated in the past had an 
opportunity to cheat in this instance, we 
might reasonably conclude he probably 
cheated this time, too); but in far too many 
instances, the critic who makes a merely 
plausible argument for an artifact closes 
the door on future research when proper 
science demands that his hypothesis of an 
artifact should also be tested. Alas, most 
critics seem happy to sit in their armchairs 
producing post hoc counterexplanations. 
Whichever side ends up with the true story, 
science best progresses through laboratory 
investigations. 
On the other hand, proponents of an 
anomaly claim who recognize the above 
fallacy may go too far in the other direc- 
tion. Some argue, like psychiatrist Cesare 
Lombroso (1836-1909) when he defended 
the mediumship of Eusapia Palladino 
(1854-1941), that the presence of wigs 
does not deny the existence of real hair. 
All of us must remember science can tell 
us what is empirically unlikely but not 
what is empirically impossible. Evidence 
in science is always a matter of degree and 
is seldom if ever absolutely conclusive. 
Some proponents of anomaly claims, like 
some critics, seem unwilling to consider 
evidence in probabilistic terms, clinging to 
any slim loose end as though the critic 
must disprove all evidence ever put for- 
ward for a particular claim. Both critics 
and proponents need to learn to think of 
adjudication in science as more like that 
found in the law courts, imperfect and with 
varying degrees of proof and evidence. 
Absolute truth, like absolute justice, is sel- 
dom obtainable. We can only do our best 
to approximate them. 
= 
claims, but the bulk of the journal is devoted to discussion of 
strategies for dealing with anomalous claims in an atmosphere 
Eastern Michigan University. The CSAR stands somewhere be- 
tween the uncritical "Fortean" press represented by the Fortean 
Times (pp. 81, 82) or Fate (pp. 81, 83), and the debunking-prone 
skepticism of the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of 
Claims of the Paranormal’s (CSICOP's) Skeptical Inquirer (p. 
198). In fact, Zetetic Scholar editor Marcello Truzzi edited the 
first few issues of CSICOP’s journal before starting his own. The 
Zetetic Scholar encourages responsible, open-minded scientific 
inquiry into paranormal claims. Some ZS articles examine such 
204 
Zetetic Scholar 
$15/year 
(2 issues) from: 
Zetetic Scholar 
Ypsilanti, Ml 48197 
Marcello Truzzi, Editor 
suggestive of the planning stages of a fledgling science. And in 
the extensive "Dialogue" section, intelligent, articulate folks 
with varying reasons for being interested in anomalistics carry 
on lively conversations. 
: 
—T.S. 
¥ 8 oHE 
Peers 
Rss 
Department of Sociology 
Eastern Michigan University 
