Prophecy: A History of the Future 
Old Testament prophets, space brothers, American Indian 
shamans, medieval soothsayers, and other assorted sybils, 
doomsayers, and apocalyptists—they’re all here, all given 
equal time in what is perhaps the most egalitarian of all 
prophecy books. 
Included are chapters on Biblical prophe- 
cies, European prophets, Nostradamus, American prophets, 
and even “earth changes” and far-out theories of fringe phys- 
ics. 
Mobius Rex, who has done his homework well, is an un- 
critical believer in prophecy, writing in his introduction: “Proph- 
ecy is clairvoyance—clear vision—across time and space, and 
it is a proven talent of the human mind.” His stated intent in 
assembling this book is to help humanity “to know the signs 
of the times and to recognize the shadows that great events 
cast before them.” But mostly he doesn’t burden the reader 
with a lot of interpretation or commentary. 
Instead, you get 
the raw text of the prophecies themselves, with just enough 
history thrown in to put the predictions in context. 
—T.S. 
e 
The Gaelic Coinneach Odhar Fiosaiche, or Kenneth Mac- 
Kenzie, the Brahan Seer or “Warlock of the Glen,” was the 
most highly respected of the Scottish prophets. The one-eyed 
magician foresaw the future through a hole in a smooth 
pebble that he always carried with him. Most of his predic- 
| 
tions concerned seventeenth-century Scotland, but he also 
foretold of the Industrial Revolution and developments such 
as gas and water mains: 
“Fire and water shall run in streams 
through all the streets and lanes of Inverness” and locomo- 
tives: 
“long strings of carriages without horses shall run be- 
tween Dingwall and Inverness.” 
e 
Hopi prophecy states that World War III will be started by 
the people who first received the Light—China, Palestine, In- 
dia, and Africa. When the war comes, the United States will 
be destroyed by “gourds of ashes” which will fall to the 
ground, boiling the rivers and burning the earth, where no 
grass will grow for many years, and causing disease that no 
medicine can cure. 
This can only mean atomic bombs; no 
other weapon causes such effects. 
e 
In 1956 Father Ernetti began to investigate the possibility 
of reviewing the past with a television-like device. 
In 1957 he 
contacted the Portuguese Professor de Matos, who was re- 
searching the same problem. 
His theoretical approach was 
based on Aristotle’s concept of the disintegration of sound, 
according to which light and sound waves do not disappear af- 
ter being produced, but are transformed in some way and re- 
main present indefinitely. 
He has revealed “photographs” of events long past, in- 
cluding Christ’s crucifixion and recorded voices of ancient con- 
versations. 
He has succeeded in reconstructing Quintus 
Ennius’s tragedy “Thyestes” in Latin, the language in which it 
was written and originally performed in 169 sB.c. 
Father Ernetti 
also claims to have recovered the original text of the Ten Com- 
mandments given to Moses. 
However, he has refused to re- 
veal details of his invention, and the machine has been sup- 
pressed by the Italian government. The Padre warns, “The 
machine can produce universal tragedy.” 
Prophecy 
A History of the Future 
Mobius Rex 
1986; 340 pp. 
$20 
postpaid from: 
Rex Research 
P.O. Box 1258 
Berkeley, CA 94701 
Le Se 
ee 
14 
lieved in the prophecy would be resurrected and be happy, 
but those who did not believe in it would stay in the 
ground and be damned forever with the whites.” This vi- 
sion apparently became widely known but still prompted 
no activity on the part of the Indians. 
Over the next two decades, the situation of the Native 
Americans deteriorated. Since the first messiah had 
preached his visions, the traditional lives of the Indians 
had been all but eradicated. Nation by nation the indige- 
nous people who lived on this continent had been moved 
off their ancestral lands, seen their buffalo disappear, and 
been forced to suffer the degradation and deprecation of 
an invading culture. Indians were everywhere under the 
threat of cultural genocide and ripe for salvation from the 
white juggernaut of Manifest Destiny. The irony is that 
the same culture that had all but destroyed the Indians’ 
way of life was also to provide the beliefs that were to 
give them a few fleeting years of hope. * 
The new messiah/prophet, also a Paiute, was called 
Wovoka and rumored to be the son of Tavibo. He 
preached a new doctrine that spread like prairie fire 
among Indians from Oklahoma to California. Newspa- 
pers and settlers grossly misunderstood the new religion, 
and alarmists claimed that it entailed the preaching of a 
bloody campaign against all whites. The truth was other- 
wise: Wovoka had spent some time with the family of 
David Wilson, a Mormon rancher in Mason Valley, and 
much of the doctrine that he later espoused was pro- 
foundly influenced by his unique understanding of Chris- 
tian theology. 
“The great underlying principle of the Ghost Dance 
doctrine is that the time will come when the whole Indian 
race, living and dead, will be reunited upon a regenerated 
earth, to live a life of aboriginal happiness, forever free 
from death, disease, and misery,” wrote Mooney. 
The doctrine, for all its simplicity and apparent in- 
nocuousness, was a radical departure for those tribes who 
espoused it. Wovoka was asking them to forego traditions 
that had always been a part of their heritage. Most impor- 
tant was his proscription against violence: “You must not 
hurt anybody or do harm to anyone. You must not fight.” 
There were other proscriptions: “Grandfather [God] says, 
when your friends die you must not cry,” meaning that 
Indians were to forego their age-old tradition of grieving 
for their loved ones by rending the hair and inflicting 
wounds on the body. 
According to Wovoka, there was no need for mourn- 
ing. No matter how oppressed the tribes may have felt, 
salvation was at hand. They would all shortly be rejoined 
with their loved ones. Their freedom from white domina- 
tion was not to be found through battle but through spiri- 
tual means, by dancing, chanting, and visions. 
“Jesus is now upon the earth. He appears like a cloud. 
The dead are all alive again. I do not know when they 
will be here; maybe this fall or in the spring. When the 
time comes there will be no more sickness and everyone 
will be young again.” The reference to next spring was 
taken literally, and tribes from Oklahoma to California en- 
tered into a frenzy of activity in preparation. 
“When you get home you must make a dance to con- 
