The first wave: 
Flying saucer 
books from the early ’50s, 
5 
including Keyhoe’s 1950 classic, 
The Flying Saucers Are Real. 
a rehash of Fort’s books, and Ralph Daigh had 
decided to go with the extraterrestrial 
hypothesis because it seemed to be the most 
commercially acceptable theory (that is, it 
would sell magazines). 
almer’s relationship with Ziff-Davis 
was strained now that he was pub- 
lishing his own magazine. “When I 
took over from Palmer, in 1949,” 
Howard Browne said, “I put an 
abrupt end to the Shaver Mystery — writing 
off over 7,000 dollars worth of scripts.” 
Moving to Amherst, Wisconsin, Palmer set up 
his own printing plant and eventually he 
printed many of those Shaver stories in his 
Hidden World series. As it turned out, postwar 
inflation and the advent of television was kil- 
ling the pulp magazine market anyway. In the 
fall of 1949, hundreds of pulps suddenly ceased 
publication, putting thousands of writers and 
editors out of work. Amazing Stories has often 
changed hands since but is still being published, 
and is still paying its writers a penny a word.’ 
For some reason known only to himself, 
Palmer chose not to use his name in Fate. 
Instead, a fictitious ““Robert N. Webster” was 
listed as editor for many years. Palmer estab- 
lished another magazine, Search, to compete 
with Fate. Search became a catch-all for inane 
letters and occult articles that failed to meet 
Fate’s low standards. 
Although there was a brief revival of public 
and press interest in flying saucers following 
the great wave of the summer of 1952, the sub- 
ject largely remained in the hands of cultists, 
cranks, teenagers, and housewives who 
reproduced newspaper clippings in little 
mimeographed journals and looked up to 
Palmer as their fearless leader. 
’ A few of the surviving science fiction magazines now pay 
(gasp!) three cents a word. But writing sci-fi still remains a 
sure way to starve to death. 
144 
In June, 1956, a major four-day symposium on 
UFOs was held in Washington, D.C. It was un- 
questionably the most important UFO affair 
of the 1950s and was attended by leading 
military men, government officials and indus- 
trialists. Men like William Lear, inventor of 
the Lear Jet, and assorted generals, admirals 
and former CIA heads freely discussed the 
UFO “problem” with the press. Notably ab- 
sent were Ray Palmer and Donald Keyhoe. 
One of the results of the meetings was the 
founding of the National Investigation Com- 
mittee on Aerial Phenomena (NICAP) by a 
physicist named Townsend Brown. Although 
the symposium received extensive press 
coverage at the time, it was subsequently cen- 
sored out of UFO history by the UFO cultists 
themselves — primarily because they had not 
participated in it.® 
The American public was aware of only two 
flying saucer personalities, contactee George 
Adamski, a lovable rogue with a talent for ob- 
taining publicity, and Donald Keyhoe, a zealot 
who howled “Coverup!” and was locked in 
mortal combat with Adamski for newspaper 
coverage. Since Adamski was the more colorful 
(he had ridden a saucer to the moon), he was 
usually awarded more attention. The press gave 
him the title of “astronomer” (he lived in a 
house on Mount Palomar where a great tele- 
scope was in operation), while Keyhoe attacked 
him as “the operator of a hamburger stand.” 
Ray Palmer tried to remain aloof of the warring 
factions, so, naturally, some of them turned 
against him. 
The year 1957 was marked by several significant 
developments. There was another major flying 
saucer wave. Townsend Brown’s NICAP floun- 
® When David Michael Jacobs wrote The UFO Controversy in 
America, a book generally regarded as the most complete 
history of the UFO maze, he chose to completely revise the 
history of the 1940s and 50s, carefully excising any mention of 
Palmer, the 1956 symposium, and many of the other important 
developments during that period. 
