until friction slows the wheel below a critical speed, when 
it stops. The permanent lack of balance is an illusion, but 
a persistent one. Some years ago, I gave a seminar on 
perpetual motion swindles to the Iowa State University 
Department of Engineering. Afterward, a student ap- 
proached me to show me a drawing of his invention—an 
almost identical overbalancing wheel, except that he had 
straight spokes set at skewed angles instead of curved 
spokes! Nothing I had said or could say would shake his 
confidence in this device. 
The Wheel of Orffyreus 
There are, of course, stories of wheels that did work. 
The most famous perpetual motion machine of the classic 
period was the so-called Wheel of Orffyreus.' “Orffy- 
reus” was in fact one Johann Ernest Elias Bessler, who 
was born in Zittau, Saxony, in 1680. He constructed his 
pseudonym by writing the letters of the alphabet in a cir- 
cle; selecting those opposite the letters of “Bessler,” he 
obtained “Orffyre,” which he Latinized into “Orffyreus.” 
Beginning in about 1712, he constructed a series of sup- 
posedly self-moving wheels, whose mechanisms he al- 
ways kept concealed. 
In about 1717, Orffyreus settled in Hesse-Cassel, 
where the Landgrave took him under his wing. Bessler 
was made Town Councillor and provided with work space 
in the Landgrave’s castle near Cassel. By the end of the 
year, he had built his largest machine, a hollow wheel 
about 12 feet in diameter and 14 inches thick. The lightly 
constructed wooden wheel was covered by canvas to keep 
the interior mechanism from prying eyes. The central 
axle was about 6 inches in diameter, with each end termi- 
nating in a 3/4-inch axle turning in a bearing. If givena 
slight shove, it would rotate and stop, but if started turn- 
ing briskly, it would pick up speed, stabilize at about 25 
rpm, and continue turning. Under load, it slowed to about 
20 rpm. Weights could be heard shifting position as it 
turned. 
On October 31, 1717, Orffyreus was requested to 
move the machine to a different room of the castle which 
he did. It was up and running on November 12. The 
wheel was set in motion and the room sealed up. Two 
weeks later, the seals were broken and the room opened. 
The wheel was revolving as when last seen. The room 
was resealed and not opened again until January 4, 1718. 
Once again, the wheel was found revolving at its custom- 
ary rate. 
The Landgrave assumed that the wheel had been turn- 
ing all this time, and he gave Orffyreus a certificate de- 
scribing the test and the precautions taken. Others were 
more skeptical. Perhaps they were motivated, as Bessler 
alleged, by jealousy, but there was also the matter of 
Bessler’s servant girl. She ran away from him and talked, 
despite a terrible oath of silence he had made her swear. 
The girl claimed that at certain times she was instructed to 
turn a small wheel concealed in anothér room, which she 
believed powered the large wheel! 
At the request of the Landgrave, Professor ’s Grave- 
1. The most extensive modern treatment of this famous device 
is by Rupert T. Gould in his 1928 book Oddities (see p. 82). 
122 
From left to right: 
The “self-acting 
pump” of P. 
Valentine Stansel 
(1658); the “Wheel 
of Orffyreus” 
(1717); astronomer 
James Ferguson's 
overbalancing 
wheel (1770); and 
the overbalancing 
wheel of J. Mitz 
(1658). 
sande of Leyden University made a superficial examina- 
tion of the Wheel of Orffyreus, as much as the inventor 
would allow. He paid special attention to the axles and 
their bearings, but he found no concealed drive mecha- 
nism there. (In my opinion, the drive mechanism was in 
plain sight! Two compound pendulums, one linked to 
each end of the axle, supposedly regulated the speed. The 
obvious assumption was that they were driven by the 
wheel. Professor ’s Gravesande never seems to have con- 
sidered that a concealed mechanism might drive the pen- 
dulums, which in turn drove the wheel.) Ironically, 
Bessler destroyed the wheel despite the fact that ’s Grave- 
sande gave the machine a clean bill of health. 
By the late nineteenth century, a huge and imaginative 
variety of energy creation schemes had been proposed and 
attempted. Besides the clanking mechanical wheels, in- 
ventors tried to use capillary action to lift water or to 
drive wheels by magnetic forces rather than gravity. Oth- 
ers tried to achieve unbalanced buoyant forces by wheels 
or chains of self-wringing sponges. Except for the frauds 
—and there were plenty of these—nothing worked. 
While the perpetual motionists were failing, scientists 
and engineers were succeeding in understanding what en- 
ergy is and how it can be controlled. This new field of 
thermodynamics eventually sharpened the definition of 
perpetual motion and brought a general consensus that it 
is impossible. 
Kinds of Perpetual Motion Machines 
A perpetual motion machine would be a device or 
system that successfully circumvented one of the laws of 
thermodynamics. The three laws of thermodynamics can 
be simply stated: (1) You can’t win, (2) you can’t break 
even, and (3) you can’t get out of the game. 
The first law of thermodynamics is the conservation 
law, which says energy can be neither created nor de- 
stroyed. (Under exotic circumstances, energy can change 
to matter and vice-versa, but we needn’t worry about that 
here.) The classical overbalancing wheel attempts to pro- 
duce energy from nothing. But you can’t win. 
The second law of thermodynamics is the law of en- 
tropy. It says heat flows spontaneously from a hot body to- 
a cold one, but not the other way. This obvious idea has 
subtle consequences. It means energy tends to dissipate, 
and much of the energy in the universe cannot be har- 
nessed to do useful work. The second law limits the 
‘tenctiil
ic 
eaea 
tesa 
aad 
teed 
ee 
