both the Multisensory Integrator (intended for dyslexia 
and anxiety) and the Modified Graham Potentializer (for 
stress). Both are cushioned, four-foot-high platforms that 
move in a gentle motion. An electromagnetic box placed 
above the head and strips under the body allegedly induce 
relaxation on the Modified Graham Potentializer. “As the 
table revolves,” inventor David Graham has explained, 
“the millions of nerve endings in your inner ear are stimu- 
lated, sending out electrical signals that are carried to the 
cerebellum and throughout the brain. . 
.. This neural ac- 
tivity causes the neurons to forge new connections. . . . 
The first thing this does is bring a dramatic increase in 
your motor and learning abilities.” 
The Stillmans place patients on the machines for as 
many as twelve sessions, once or twice a week, charging 
$85 a session. Offering letters from former clients as evi- 
dence, they claim that in eighty-nine percent of their cases 
“we had a total remission of dyslexia.” But Arnold Still- 
man downplays the effects of the machines when I raise 
the specter of FDA approval, which neither the Multi- 
sensory Integrator nor the Modified Graham Potentializer 
have. “You have to be careful how you write this,” he 
tells me. “The FDA gets into the picture if we start mak- 
ing medical claims. So we never use the word cure. It’s 
training—only it’s training that you won’t perceive.” 
rain builders have a tendency to back off when 
asked to provide scientific data to support some 
of their claims. Nevertheless, most have as- 
sembled a voluminous quantity of anecdotal 
evidence. And the fact is, when confronted with hundreds 
of first-person testimonials from people who claim the 
John-David Learning Institute, the Brain Tuner, or the 
Graham Potentializer “changed my life,” one has to be re- 
spectful. Some people may honestly believe they’ve been 
helped. The devices may act as placebos, giving en- 
couragement to those seeking smarts or inner peace. 
Some of the machines—such as the Potentializer, the Syn- 
chro-Energizer, the DAVID 1—may even be effective re- 
laxation tools. And if they make their users feel good, 
perhaps they’re worth $10, $30, or $85 a pop. For all 
that, nobody has ever presented a double-blind, scientific 
study to substantiate claims that stimulation can lead to 
brain growth, learning enhancement, memory retrieval, 
serenity, or self-confidence. 
Additionally, some of these New Age inventors use 
pseudoscientific jargon to impart to their devices a sophis- 
tication they simply don’t have. Take the frequency-fol- 
lowing response, which, Gorges insists, duplicates the 
trancelike state that is achieved by experienced medita- 
tors. Dr. Jerome Engel, Jr., professor of neurology at the 
UCLA School of Medicine, disputes the notion that this is 
possible. “Using traditional methods to learn to meditate 
would undoubtedly be good for many people,” he says. 
“But this equipment is claiming to provide a shortcut that 
is unproven and therefore misleading.” 
Dr. Robert Heath, emeritus professor of Tulane 
University’s department of neuropsychiatry, scoffs at 
those such as Gorges who promise to synchronize the left 
and right brain hemispheres. “I know of no such thing 
Randy 
Green/Onyx 
The Synchro-Energizer promises to induce deep relaxation, improve your 
memory, Increase your creativity, and expand your awareness. 
that could achieve that balance,” he says, “or whether any 
such concept would be of any value.” 
“Gorges is making all sorts of claims for the physio- 
logical as well as the therapeutic effects,” says City 
University’s Kirsch. “If he were making the claims he’s 
making and had registered his device with the FDA, 
they’d probably crack down on him. But they just don’t 
have the manpower to come out and inspect these de- 
VICES: 
When I call Gordon Scott, public and consumer af- 
fairs officer at the Los Angeles branch of the FDA, and 
read aloud the product brochure distributed by one of the 
brain/mind salons, his response is unequivocal: “We’re 
dealing with a major case of health fraud here.” And 
when I mention that the brochure includes an FDA en- 
dorsement (“this machine has been approved [by the 
FDA\] as a safe and reliable learning/relaxation device”), 
Scott becomes obviously angry: “Even if we do approve 
devices, we don’t permit our agency to be used for pro- 
motion of any sort,” he says, requesting that I mail him a 
copy of the brochure. 
Researchers are similarly harsh on other claims. Al- 
though stimulation of the cerebellum through movement 
has been used in the past to treat dyslexic children, “no 
evidence exists that you can repattern the brain of an 
adult,” says Heath. He believes machines promising to 
repattern the brain are “diffusing facts into quackery.” 
Clarann Goldring, Ph.D., former president of the L.A. 
branch of the thirty-eight-year-old Orton Dyslexia Soci- 
ety, which maintains a laboratory at the Harvard Medical 
School, says, “I have asked the Stillmans time and time 
again to send me robust, hearty research that their treat- 
ment works, and they refuse. ... They’re careful with 
their wording. If they said they could cure dyslexia I’d go 
after them in two minutes.” Arnold Stillman responds: 
“She wants the results of a study that we’re doing, which 
has all kinds of positive results. She made all kinds of ac- 
135 
