Palmer 
Publications 
| I 
Richard Shaver (left), inventor of the Shaver Mystery, and Ray Palmer 
(right), the man who invented flying saucers, outside Shaver’s house 
sometime in the 1950s. 
ih 
— 
Hi 
mt 
Amazing Stories. It had been created in 1929 
by the inestimable Hugo Gernsback, who is 
generally acknowledged as the father of 
modern science fiction. Gernsback, an elec- 
trical engineer, ran a small publishing empire 
of magazines dealing with radio and technical 
subjects. (He also founded Sexology, a 
magazine of soft-core pornography disguised 
as science, which enjoyed great success in a 
somewhat conservative era.) It was his practice 
to sell — or even give away — a magazine 
when its circulation began to slip. Although 
Amazing Stories was one of the first of its 
kind, its readership was down to a mere 25,000 
when Gernsback unloaded it on Ziff-Davis. 
William B. Ziff decided to hand the editorial 
reins to the young science fiction buff from 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. At the age of 28, 
Palmer found his life’s work. 
Expanding the pulp magazine to 200 pages 
(and as many as 250 pages in some issues), 
Palmer deliberately tailored it to the tastes of 
teenaged boys. He filled it with nonfiction 
features and filler items on science and 
pseudo-science in addition to the usual for- 
mula short stories of BEMs (Bug-Eyed 
Monsters) and beauteous maidens in distress. 
Many of the stories were written by Palmer 
himself under a variety of pseudonyms such as 
Festus Pragnell and Thorton Ayre, enabling 
him to supplement his meager salary by paying 
himself the usual penny-a-word. His old 
cronies from fandom also contributed stories 
to the magazine with a zeal that far surpassed 
their talents. In fact, of the dozen or so science 
fiction magazines then being sold on the news- 
stands, Amazing Stories easily ranks as the 
very worst of the lot. Its competitors, such as 
Startling Stories, Thrilling Wonder Stories, 
Planet Stories and the venerable Astounding (now 
renamed Analog) employed skilled, exper- 
ienced professional writers like Ray Bradbury, 
Isaac Asimov, and L. Ron Hubbard (who later 
140 
created Dianetics and founded Scientology). 
Amazing Stories was garbage in comparison 
and hardcore sci-fi fans tended to sneer at it.” 
The magazine might have limped through the 
1940s, largely ignored by everyone, if not for a 
single incident. Howard Browne, a television 
writer who served as Palmer’s associate editor 
in those days, recalls: “Early in the 1940s, a 
letter came to us from Dick Shaver purporting 
to reveal the “truth” about a race of freaks, 
called “‘Deros,” living under the surface of the 
earth. Ray Palmer read it, handed it to me for 
comment. I read a third of it, tossed it in the 
waste basket. Ray, who loved to show his edi- 
tors a trick or two about the business, fished it 
out of the basket, ran it in Amazing, and a 
flood of mail poured in from readers who in- 
sisted every word of it was true because they’d 
been plagued by Deros for years.’ 
Actually, Palmer had accidently tapped a huge, 
previously unrecognized audience. Nearly every 
community has at least one person who com- 
plains constantly to the local police that 
someone — usually a neighbor — is aiming a 
terrible ray gun at their house or apartment. 
This ray, they claim, is ruining their health, 
causing their plants to die, turning their bread 
moldy, making their hair and teeth fall out, 
and broadcasting voices into their heads. 
Psychiatrists are very familiar with these ‘‘ray” 
victims and relate the problem with paranoid- 
schizophrenia. For the most part, these 
paranoiacs are harmless and usually elderly. 
Occasionally, however, the voices they hear 
urge them to perform destructive acts, par- 
ticularly arson. They are a distrustful lot, 
loners by nature, and very suspicious of 
everyone, including the government and all 
figures of authority. In earlier times, they 
thought they were hearing the voice of God 
and/or the Devil. Today they often blame the 
CIA or space beings for their woes. They 
naturally gravitate to eccentric causes and 
organizations which reflect their own fears 
and insecurities, advocating bizarre political 
philosophies and reinforcing their peculiar 
belief systems. Ray Palmer unintentionally 
? The author was an active sci-fan in the 1940s and published 
a fanzine called Lunarite. Here’s a quote from Lunarite dated 
October 26, 1946: “Amazing Stories is still trying to convince 
everyone that the BEMs in the caves run the world. And I was 
blaming it on the Democrats. ‘Great Gods and Little Termites’ 
was the best tale in this ish [issue]. But Shaver, author of the 
‘Land of Kui,’ ought to give up writing. He’s lousy. And the 
editors of AS ought to join Sgt. Saturn on the wagon and quit 
drinking that Xeno or the BEMs in the caves will get them.” 
I clearly remember the controversy created by the Shaver 
Mystery and the great disdain with which the hardcore fans 
viewed it. 
> From Cheap Thrills: An Informal History of the Pulp 
Magazines by Ron Goulart (published by Arlington House, 
New York, 1972). 
