eendnccicscree want the authority of science 
but are unwilling to abide by the rules by which the 
scientific community earned its authority in 
the first place. 
art, zen, medicine, psychotherapy, and so on. 
This makes a book like Capra’s Tao of Physics 
almost impossible to evaluate adequately. Those 
adept at physics don’t understand orientalism; 
those well versed in Taoist philosophy can say lit- 
tle about the physics. The people who swallow 
Capra’s speculations usually can critique neither. 
If they like what they read, they accept it as fact. 
One concrete consequence of this ubiquitous 
ambivalence toward science can be seen in the 
rejection of training in science and logical think- 
ing by some would-be humanistic psychologists 
and other aspiring agents of change. Without 
such training these people, regardless of their 
heart-felt commitment to transformation, have 
practically no basis on which to evaluate claims 
made in the name of science. Anyone — crackpot, 
charlatan, genius, or sage — must be dealt with 
in the same way (believed or disbelieved) solely 
on the basis of personal opinion. Personal opinion 
then becomes equated with knowledge and can 
be asserted without embarrassment. 
The result is that the human potential move- 
ment has come dangerously close to creating the 
conditions for the establishment of yet another 
orthodoxy resting on unproved articles of faith 
and taken-for-granted definitions, axioms, and 
concepts. Humanistic science loses ground each 
time it hands over authority to pseudoscientists 
and speculative myth builders. 
GOOD MYTHS AND BAD MYTHS 
On two occasions (both gatherings of humanistic 
psychologists) when the monkey story was told, I 
tried to raise some of the issues raised here. When 
I suggested that the Hundredth Monkey story 
lay in the realm of mythic thought, not scientific, 
the response was the same; the speakers were un- 
impressed. “Myths are as true as science,” was the 
response. “It’s a metaphor” was another. P.B. 
Walsh’s comment in the November 1983 Associa- 
tion for Humanistic Psychology Newsletter was char- 
acteristic: “Science or myth, the Hundredth 
Monkey is a metaphor that exactly fits. . .” and, 
later, “As metaphor it speaks to our empowerment.” 
As to the assertion that myths are as true as 
science, I take the point. But there is more that 
has. to be said, for although they might both be 
“true,” they are not true in the same way. These 
respondents either do not know this or do not 
think it matters much. But, of course, it matters 
a great deal and I believe that it is urgent that we 
learn to recognize the difference. Casually inter- 
changing myth, science, and metaphor robs each 
of these realms of its unique power to deepen 
our understanding of the world, to orient our 
science, and to inform our actions. Women and 
ethnic minorities well know the consequences of 
wrapping a myth together with science. It is 
especially pernicious, as any Nazi holocaust sur- 
vivor can confirm, when a bad myth is wrapped 
up with bad science. 
My objection to the Hundredth Monkey Phenomenon, 
then, is not that it is myth, but that it is bad myth, 
and that it draws its force not from the collective 
imagination, but by masquerading as science. It 
leads us (as I have tried to show) in the direction 
of propaganda, manipulation, totalitarianism, 
and a worldview dominated by the powerful and 
persuasive — in other words, business as usual. 
Perhaps the best use for this myth has already 
been found by the publishers of the New Age 
Journal. After giving me in their mass mailing a 
streamlined and even more anthropomorphized 
version of the monkey story, after flattering me 
with the thought that I am a person with a more 
advanced consciousness, after telling me that 
“test after test” by “behavioral scientists” has 
shown “conclusively that when a critical number 
of learners reach a new awareness, this new 
awareness may be spontaneously communicated 
from mind to mind,” they tell me that now is the 
time to get a good deal on their magazine. So 
sure of their ground are they, they conclude, 
“There’s no doubt about it. (I am their) 
Hundredth Monkey.” 
When I was first drawn into humanistic science, 
I was well aware that I was attracted to its myth. 
I knew of very little actual “data” that could sup- 
port a belief in the possibility of a humane global 
collective, composed of free, responsible, rational 
people capable of purposeful action, critical 
thought, creativitiy, and individual conscience. 
Of course I knew this to be an idealized myth 
standing in sharp contrast to the indignities that 
are the actual daily experience of all but a privi- 
leged few. Even so, I think it is a good myth and 
has the psychological power to mobilize us and to 
orient our search for knowledge about ourselves. @ 
185 
