(Left) Rudolf Steiner (1861-1925), who broke away from the Theosophical Soci- 
ety In 1909 to form his own Anthroposophical Society. Steiner wrote prolifically, 
applying his occult theories to every facet of life. Anthroposophy remains a large 
movement, especially In Europe. (Right) Benjamin Creme (1923-present) claims 
to have been in telepathic contact since 1975 with the new messiah, “Maitreya 
the Christ,” who has been reborn as an Aslan Immigrant In East London. 
with Christianity and Western esotericism than were those 
of the T.S. elsewhere, and he ended up splitting from the 
TS. over the issue of Krishnamurti, taking 55 of the 69 
German Theosophical lodges with him. This was the 
genesis of Steiner’s Anthroposophical Society, which re- 
mains active in Europe and the U.S. today. 
Though the T.S. was never an advocate of magic (ei- 
ther black or white) itself, its atmosphere of inquiry into 
the occult gave various proponents of ceremonial magic 
their first taste of the arcane. The group most responsible 
for reviving the modern interest in magic, the Hermetic 
Order of the Golden Dawn, was founded by Masons oper- 
ating in the Theosophical milieu, and the Order briefly 
considered affiliating with the T.S. W.B. Yeats, one of the 
Golden Dawn’s most famous members, was a member of 
the Dublin lodge of the T.S. prior to joining the Order. 
Similarly, Dion Fortune, author of many popular books on 
magic and the occult, was a member of both the T.S. and a 
later offshoot of the Golden Dawn. Her own magical 
group, the Fraternity of the Inner Light, was originally 
fashioned as a special-interest lodge within the T.S., 
though that affiliation was short-lived. 
Theosophy even left its stamp on modern art, playing 
a significant role in the formation of the aesthetics of 
Wassily Kandinsky, Piet Mondrian (who joined the T.S. in 
1909), and numerous others. The major art exhibit organ- 
ized by the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in 1986, 
“The Spiritual in Art: Abstract Painting 1890-1985,” 
documented parallels between the color representations of 
Besant and Leadbeater’s “thought forms” and early ab- 
stract art, and noted the influence of Theosophical, al- 
chemical, and mystical ideas on everyone from Hugo Ball 
and Jean Arp to Marcel Duchamp, Edvard Munch, and 
Hilma af Klint. 
I would be remiss if the reader was left with the im- 
pression that the sometimes-humorous antics of various 
The Aquarian Conspiracy 
It was big news in 1980—the counterculture had grown up and 
joined the work force. Thousands of people across the nation 
with a common vision were quietly working for change in their 
respective fields. 
It’s still news now, although “New Age” is a 
tarnished term, co-opted by consciousness con-artists selling 
get-enlightened-quick schemes. 
Marilyn Ferguson recounts 
what it did mean, should mean, could mean: 
not a perfect 
world, but a world with a healthier set of assumptions. 
The 
universe as an organism, not a mechanism (handle with care); 
body/mind as an unbroken connection; the oneness of all peo- 
ple as crew of spaceship Earth—these concepts are part of the 
mental stew of a ene number of people. 
That's the Aquar- 
ian Conspiracy. 
—Corinne Cullen Hawkins 
° 
With its periodic Great Awakenings, the United States has 
always attracted mystics and evangelists. 
Long before the 
Spiritual revolution we see now, Eastern and Western mystics 
influenced mainstream American thought. 
Their ideas were 
daily bread to the American Transcendentalists and the “beat 
generation.” 
Yet, as Oriental religions scholar Robert Ellwood 
pointed out, all these exports are filtered through the American 
psyche and experience. 
Zen, Swedenborgianism, Theosophy, 
or Vedanta in the United States are not what they were in Ja- 
pan, eighteenth-century England, or nineteenth-century India. 
American adherents may sometimes use Eastern symbols, but 
their essential spiritual life is better understood through the 
American lineage of Emerson, Thoreau, Whitman, the Shakers, 
and others. “Down-home Zen” is the term Rick Fields used to 
describe the Zen center in the heart of the Wilshire business 
district of Los Angeles. 
° 
A Gallup poll released in February 1978 reported that ten 
million Americans were engaged in some aspect of Eastern reli- 
gion, nine million in spiritual healing. Those involved in Eastern 
religions tended to be younger adults, college-educated, living 
on either of the two coasts, about equally men and women, 
Catholic and Protestant. 
“Although [they] are not as likely to 
be church-goers 
. 
. 
. they are just as likely to say that their reli- 
gious beliefs are ‘very important’ in their lives.” 
Spiritual experience moved beyond the borders of the es- 
tablishment so quietly that only the poll takers have measured 
the change. Addressing fellow scholars and historians in the 
field of religion, Jacob Needleman remarked ironically in 1977 
that these ideas and practices are now—“without our prior per- 
mission, so to speak—entering the real lives of real people, 
causing trouble, having real effects on marriages, careers, poli- 
tics, goals, friendships.” 
° 
In one sense, Zukav [Gary Zukav, author of The Dancing 
Wu Li Masters] said, we may be approaching “the end of sci- 
ence.” 
Even as we continue to seek understanding, we are 
learning to accept the limits of our reductionist methods. 
Only 
direct experience can give a sense of this nonlocal universe, 
this realm of connectedness. 
Enlarged awareness—as in med- 
itation—may carry us past limits of our logic to more complete 
knowledge. The end of conventional science may mean “the 
coming of Western civilization, in its own time and in its own 
way, into the higher dimensions of human experience.” 
The Aquarian Conspiracy 
Personal and Social Transformation 
in Our Time 
Marilyn Ferguson 
1980, 1970; 468pp. 
$10.95 
($12.20 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
Attn: Cash Sales 
175 5th Ave. 
New York, NY 10010 
800/221-7945 
x 
