Pivcews writes 
novels that bear the same 
relationship to traditional 
shamanism that Harlequin | 
Romances. bear to a solid, 
enduring marriage. 
appropriate Library of Congress cataloging data, as occurs 
with both Castaneda’s and Andrews’ books. (Librarians’ 
journals reveal the surprising extent to which book cata- 
loging is determined by editorial gatekeeping and poli- 
tics.) 
Academia is a jealous place; suspicion that Castaneda 
was a novelist led to a reaction against him, notably the 
publication of two books detailing inconsistencies and 
impossibilities in his works: Richard de Mille’s Casta- 
neda’s Journey and an anthology edited by de Mille, The 
Don Juan Papers (see review, previous page). De Mille 
accuses Castaneda of changing the tone of his adventures 
to fit the perceived desires of his readers. As psychedelic 
drugs became less trendy, he suggests, Castaneda “sud- 
denly discovered a wealth of neglected drugless tech- 
niques in some piles of old field notes 
. 
. 
. Tales of Power 
and The Second Ring of Power reflected later popular 
trends toward occultism and feminism.”? 
46 
he late 1970s and early 1980s saw increased at- 
tention paid by American women to the idea that 
there might be a particularly feminine form of 
spirituality. Women’s groups formed in the more 
liberal Christian denominations; Catholic nuns denounced 
the male-dominated church hierarchy and many left their 
former orders. Female academics produced the Journal 
of Feminist Studies in Religion and denounced the male- 
dominated initiatory experience of graduate school. Joan 
MclIntyre’s observation is typical: “When women come 
together there is... a strong sense of an ancient knowl- 
edge that we have done all this before; that we have sat 
together over aeons of time midwifing each other into 
greater spiritual awareness.” 
To meet this hunger came the “shaman of Beverly 
Hills,” Lynn Andrews. More accessible than Castaneda, 
ready to leap into lecturing and producing tape cassettes, 
Andrews writes novels that bear the same relationship to 
traditional shamanism that Harlequin Romances bear to a 
solid, enduring marriage. Instead of the poor but honor- 
able working girl who marries the moody lord or rising 
businessman, they feature Lynn the butterfly shaman and 
her magic carpet of credit cards. She books flights to one 
exotic locale after another—northern Canada, the Guate- 
malan jungle, the Australian outback. No sooner does she 
arrive than she discovers women possessing ancient se- 
crets who scarcely meet the blonde stranger before they 
fall all over themselves offering her one dizzying initia- 
tion after another. 
Not stopping to synthesize and apply these dazzling 
spiritual pyrotechnics, Andrews bats out another book 
and—we are told—dials her travel agent for another trip 
to Fantasy Island. She often presents herself as baffled by 
what she hears. One of her supposed teachers, Zoila the 
Mayan, rattles off the confusing cosmology of her per- 
sonal altar, leaving Andrews to say, “Her words had not 
all made sense to me and had not all followed one another 
coherently.””> 
This is only a pseudoproblem, however, since An- 
drews’ devoted readers are people who have decided that 
intellectual structures are not to be trusted. They want to 
be dazzled, to be told they are special, and if they them- 
selves cannot flit from one shaman to another and be the 
first white woman to receive the (fill in the blank) tribe’s 
secret teachings, they can relax knowing that she is doing 
it. And if they can afford to travel to exotic Beverly Hills, 
they can even book a counseling session : $150 per hour.° 
One of the most interesting essays on Castaneda in 
The Don Juan Papers is an ecology-based critique by 
Hans Sebald, a professor of sociology at Arizona State 
University in Tempe. Titled “Roasting Rabbits in Tulare- 
mia or The Lion, the Witch and the Horned Toad,” it uses 
a naturalist’s arguments to prove how unlikely it is that 
Castaneda could have been in the Mexican desert where 
and when he says. Even as Carlos never gets thirsty in 
the Sonoran desert during long summer days, so Lynn 
Andrews is never bitten by a mosquito or blackfly in the 
Manitoba bush country. 
Like Castaneda, Andrews’ home base is Los Angeles 
—not the UCLA anthropology department, but a glittery 
