TABLOID T 
HOUSEWIF 
ZOMBIE! 
Librarian reveals all... 
by Michael H. Randall 
Few people in the United States who have passed 
through a supermarket checkstand have been able to es- 
cape noticing tabloids, those small, newspaper-like publi- 
cations filled with stories of the odd and the sensational. 
Probably just as few people have never looked inside one 
of these publications. After all, how many people do not 
feel some interest in a titillating celebrity scandal or the 
New Candy Bar Diet? Beyond this casual sort of interest, 
readers buy over 14 million copies of tabloids every week, 
and tabloids generate over $380 million in revenues each 
year. But, despite their phenomenal popularity, the tabloids 
are reviled and shunned by joumailists, critics, and even ce- 
lebrities, accounts of whose activities provide most of the 
tabloids’ editorial content. The tabloids lack credibility even 
among their readers; polls show that 75 percent of all 
readers (the average is a female, age 37, with a $23,000 
median household income) do not believe what they read 
in the tabloids. 
Such attitudes are unfair to the extent that they consti- 
tute an indictment of all tabloids. While the past (and 
some current) practices of tabloids have bordered on the 
underhanded and sleazy, not all tabloids today resort to 
outright prevarication in their articles to boost sales. In 
fact, at least one of the tabloids now employs rigorous 
fact-checking procedures to verify each story before publica- 
tion. Another tabloid regularly holds seminars for its editors 
to help them guard against publishing potentially libelous 
articles. Presumably, these developments have been in 
response to the flood of lawsuits that have been filed 
against the tabloids by allegedly libeled celebrities. 
Tabloids include numerous service-oriented features on 
topics of benefit to their readers. They also perform a vital 
service for the entertainment industry. In fact, this industry 
probably could not function as it does without the tabloids 
and their wide publicity value for celebrities 
and entertain- 
ment productions. One writer for the tabloids claims that 
many entertainment personalities and their publicists 
make a habit of using the tabloids to further the stars’ ca- 
reers, while publicly denying that they would ever consider 
doing so. 
Although the tabloids are highly popular, as is evi- 
denced by their huge circulation figures, they are faced with 
strong competition. Tabloids must compete not only with 
other celebrity-oriented publications like People and Us, 
but also with television programs focused on personality 
news and gossip. Perhaps this competition explains why, in 
Since nobody reads these little intros anyway, | guess | can make an embarrassing confession: For a while | actually subscribed to 
the Weekly World News, which features articles like “First Successful Human Head Transplant!” and “I Had a Space Alien’s Baby!” | 
don’t know who laughed harder—me, or the WWN staffers who wrote the stuff. 
Michael Randall, a University of California research li- 
brarian, here applies his skills to this neglected realm of popular journalism, answering some of the questions about editorial and re- 
porting policies that run through my mind whenever | scan the racks at the supermarket checkout counter. 
—T.S. 
This article originally appeared in the Summer 1985 issue of Serials Review, a library journal, and is reprinted here by permission. 
98 
