Sbun ers 
reading about their efforts to track down a mermaid-like sea 
mammal called the “Ri” by natives of New Guinea, the 
Wildman of central China, or the puma-like Onza of Mexico. 
Following a standard academic format, the ISC produces a 
yearly journal, Cryptozoology, which contains articles, re- 
search reports, field reports, and reviews. The ISC also 
publishes the informal quarterly ISC Newsletter, which fea- 
tures fascinating strange-animal news, interviews, reports, 
and correspondence. 
Among the creatures ISC members find interesting is 
North America’s Bigfoot, also Known as Sasquatch. 
Though Bigfoot is a favorite subject of schlock writers, the 
question of its existence has also received some serious 
attention. The best books are by John Green, a hardwork- 
ing journalist and field researcher who has spent over thirty 
years traveling around the country observing footprints and 
collecting reports. Green has unearthed numerous nine- 
teenth-century accounts that impressively demonstrate that 
reports of hairy “wildmen” have been around for a long 
time. His On the Track of the Sasquatch focuses on the 
Pacific Northwest, where place names like “Ape Canyon” 
attest to the longstanding wildman tradition; Sasquatch: 
The Apes Among Us deals with both the Northwest and the 
rest of North America. 
Manlike Monsters on Trial reprints a collection of pa- 
pers delivered at a conference on “Sasquatch and Similar 
Phenomena” held at the University of British Columbia. 
The perspectives represented are divided between folklore 
and natural science. The folklore contributors cover medie- 
Scollophlis atlanticus, 
the Great American 
Sea-serpent. 
—In the Wake of 
the Sea-Serpents 
by Ted Schultz 
val monsters, European wildman myths, and Indian leg- 
ends, while the naturalists discuss Sasquatch population 
clines, vocalizations, and feces and hair samples. 
Like 
John Green’s nineteenth-century accounts, the Indian leg- 
ends and art demonstrate rather chillingly that, whether 
Bigfoot is real or not, it’s definitely not an invention of 
twentieth-century supermarket tabloids. 
Cryptozoology is only one of the subjects covered by 
Living Wonders, which takes a folklore-oriented approach 
to its subject. Pets that journey thousands of miles to re- 
join their masters, flocks of crows conducting “funerals” 
for their dead, living toads extracted from cornerstones laid 
centuries before—these are the kinds of recurrent ac- 
counts one encounters in folktales, passing conversations, 
and throwaway newspaper clippings. Living Wonders col- 
lates such stories, culled from diverse historical and mod- 
ern sources, into a thoroughly fascinating collection, won- 
derfully illustrated with engravings and photos. 
It leaves 
the reader with the impression that many an incredible folk 
belief may have some foundation in natural fact after all. 
Finally, for the reader who is serious about surveying 
the extensive but obscure literature of cryptozoology, there 
is George Eberhart’s Monsters. Monsters is an exhaustive 
bibliography of “living animals uncaught and uncataloged 
by science,” and is divided into sections like “Giant Birds, 
Giant Bats, and Moas,” “Mammoths and Mastodons,” and 
“Humanoids in Asia” (e.g., the Yeti). Each section opens 
with an informative overview, then presents an extensive 
list of books and articles on the subject. With this book 
On the Track of 
Sasquatch 
the Sasquatch 
The Apes Among Us 
Books 1 and 2 
John Green 
John Green 
1978; 492 pp. 
1980; 64 pp. each 
$12.95 postpaid 
$5 each postpaid 
from: 
from: 
Hancock House 
Cheam Publishing 
1431 Harrison Ave. 
P.O. Box 374 
Blaine, WA 98230 
Harrison Hot 
206/354-6953 
Springs,B.C. 
Canada VOM 1KO 
till 
oe 
Manlike Monsters 
on Trial 
Early Records and 
Modern Evidence 
Marjorie Halpin and 
Michael M. Ames, Editors 
1980; 334 pp. 
$14.95 
($18.45 postpaid) from: 
University of British 
Columbia Press 
303-6344 Memorial Rd. 
Vancouver, B.C. 
Canada V6T 1W5 
604/228-3846 
Living Wonders 
Mysteries and Curiosi- 
ties of the Animal 
World 
John Michell and 
Robert J.M. Rickard 
1982; 176 pp. 
$9.95 postpaid from: 
Thames and Hudson 
500 Fifth Ave. 
New York, NY 10110 
800/233-4830 
Monsters 
Including Bigfoot, Many 
Water Monsters, and 
Other Irregular Animals 
George M. Eberhart 
1983; 358 pp. 
$33 postpaid from: 
Garland Publishing 
Attn: Order Dept. 
136 Madison Ave. 
New York, NY 10016 
212/686-7492 
117 
