The Great Mental Calculators 
A readable exploration of the lives and abilities of mental 
calculators, people who perform in their heads arithmetic 
feats such as finding the date of Easter in the year 3765. 
The 
book discusses both those such as the great mathematician 
Gauss, for whom mental calculation was a minor sidelight, 
and those for whom it was a center of life, such as the illiter- 
ate eighteenth-century Englishman Jedediah Buxton. 
It illumi- 
nates the diverse psychologies and methods of the mental 
calculators and speculates on the possibility (of questionable 
value in a world of electronic hand calculators) of teaching ev- 
eryone to duplicate their feats. 
—Gerald Feinberg 
e 
We learn our first language not by deliberately committing 
to memory some set of rules but by hearing examples, on the 
basis of which we infer a complex system which underlies our 
ability to speak. 
There is at least one case of calculating prodigies who 
learned to calculate in just this way. 
Horwitz, Kestenbaum, 
Person, and Jarvic reported on identical twin calendar calcula- 
tors. They were self-taught, and their |.Q.’s were at that time 
in the 60s - 70s. The twins could tell, given a date, the day of 
the week on which that date fell, or will fall. One of the twins, 
Charles, was completely accurate only for this century, but his 
brother George made correct day-date identifications in centu- 
ries ranging from 4,100 B.c. to 40,400 a.p.... 
The twins’ ability at calendar calculations was acquired 
from extensive examination of a perpetual calendar in the 
The Adventure of Self-Discovery 
Systematic clinical research in the use of psychedelic 
drugs was a major casualty of the cultural revolution triggered 
by LSD. 
The psychiatrist Stanislav Grof, virtually the sole sur- 
vivor of the original psychedelic researchers, began his re- 
search in Prague and moved it to the United States in 1968. 
The tens of thousands of psychedelic trips he’s investigated, 
as a participant as well as an observer, include thousands of 
legal LSD sessions with dying patients. 
His reports of pain- 
killing as well as spiritually uplifting effects remain a challenge 
to those who must deal with the dying. 
In The Adventure of Self-Discovery, Grof lays out a pre- 
liminary cartography of consciousness, relating the “con- 
densed experience” (COEX) structures of psychedelic trips, 
near-death experiences, and other unusual states. 
Experi- 
ences common to these states include reexperiencing of birth, 
as well as a range of religious, mythological, and paranormal 
phenomena. 
Grof provides a taxonomy of such imagery, cate- 
gorizing the Hindu gods, Nordic deities, extraterrestrial guardi- 
ans, and other archetypal entities that abound in psychedelic 
sessions. 
Of particular interest is the emergence of a new 
category of experience that Grof has noted in recent years: the 
strong, often life-changing experience of the Earth as a living 
organism, wounded and crying out to be healed. 
—Howard Rheingold 
Brain/Mind Bulletin 
Easily the handiest way to stay current with the news and 
gossip on the soft psychology frontier. 
Despite success and a 
burgeoning of subject matter, editor Marilyn Ferguson has 
admirably kept the Bulletin’s format to a terse, packed six 
pages. 
—Stewart Brand 
e¢ 
Anap in time saves nine. That’s the conclusion of experi- 
menters who have been studying what might be called “pre- 
ventive sleep”—optimally timed napping. 
Well-placed naps may serve us better than sleep after ac- 
cumulated “sleep debt.” Those anticipating 
jet lag or all-night 
Studying will be benefited more by napping prior to sleep loss 
than by napping the next day. 
76 
The Great Mental Calculators 
The Psychology, Methods, and Lives 
of Calculating Prodigies Past and Present 
Steven B. Smith 
1985; 400 pp. 
$17.00 
($19.00 postpaid) from: 
Columbia University Press 
136 South Broadway 
Irvington, NY 10533 
914/591-9370 
World Almanac, which George discovered at age 6. By poring 
over examples, the twins, in some mysterious way, inferred an 
unconscious algorithm for calendar calculations. 
Interestingly, 
they did not incorporate all the data found in the perpetual cal- 
endar in formulating their algorithm. The calendar covered the 
years 1 to 2400 and is correct for the Julian calendar in giving 
dates before September 14, 1752, when the change to the 
Gregorian calendar went into effect in the British possessions. 
The twins were unable to make the correction for the Julian 
calendar as given in the almanac, even though the Julian cal- 
endar is easier to compute. 
Something mysterious, though commonplace, is operating 
here—the mysterious human ability to form unconscious algo- 
rithms on the basis of examples. When asked how they did it, 
the twins’ replies were about as informative as one might ex- 
pect from a man on the street if pressed to explain how he 
talks: “It’s in my head and | do it.” 
The Ether Demon: This painting was 
done after recognizing that an all- 
pervasive, non-specific sense of 
nausea, terror, and electric icy cold 
was related to the anaesthesia used 
in birth. 
The Adventure of 
Self-Discovery 
Dimensions of Con- 
sciousness and 
New Perspectives 
in Psychotherapy 
and Inner Exploration 
Stanislav Grof 
1988; 321 pp. 
$10.95 
($14.95 postpaid) 
from: 
CUP Services 
P.O. Box 6525 
Ithaca, NY 14850 
ea 
Pld 
Brain/Mind Bulletin 
Marilyn Ferguson, Editor 
$35 /year 
(12 issues) from: 
Interface Press 
P.O. Box 70457 
Pasadena, CA 91107 
818/577-7233 
