The Conspiracy Watcher’s Field Guide 
by Jay Kinney 
tis 1975. 
| decide to check out the San Francisco 
American Opinion bookstore, one of the national 
chain of “patriotic” book shops associated with the 
John Birch Society. Tracking down the address listed 
in the phone book, | find that the book store is lo- 
cated in a home in the Outer Sunset district—a stuc- 
coed, middle class, residential neighborhood. 
| ring the front doorbell and am let in cautiously 
by a greying woman. The bookstore? 
It’s a little two- 
shelf bookcase in the front hall. Just what was | in- 
terested in? the woman asks. Oh, information and 
books on the way things are really run. You know— 
the CFR, the Rockefellers, stuff like that, | answer. 
Squatting in the hallway, | look through the meager 
selection of paperbacks and pamphlets reprinted 
from old American Opinion magazines, and choose a 
few of the more promising ones. 
By now, apparently convinced of my sincere inter- 
est, my hostess takes me into her confidence. You 
can’t be too careful in battling the Insiders, she 
warns. Why, her next-door neighbors used to have 
regular nighttime meetings—mysterious gatherings 
of men who’d arrive by car and meet behind closed 
drapes, doing what, God only knows! You can imag- 
ine how shocked her husband and she were to dis- 
cover that the Illuminati—yes, THE ILLUMINATI!— 
were holding meetings right next door! 
Well! They wasted little time in informing their 
neighbors that they knew who they really were, and 
by George if it wasn’t just a few months later that 
their neighbors sold their house and moved away! 
Somewhat taken aback by this astounding tale of 
an informed citizenry at work, | offer my congratula- 
tions on their small victory against the Conspiracy 
and leave shortly after, clutching my newly purchased 
literature. 
Nearly fifteen years and countless conspiracies 
later, I’m still puzzled by that greying Bircher lady with 
her Illuminati neighbors. Was she merely a paranoid 
busybody harassing the hapless folks next door or 
was she actually onto something? Of one thing |’m 
certain: she isn’t alone in her certainty that lurking 
behind the facade of daily life and pulling our strings 
is a hidden world of power-crazed billionaires and 
their political henchmen. 
Hundreds of thousands (if not millions) of right- 
ward-leaning citizens have found that various conspir- 
acy theories help explain their sense of powerless- 
ness and frustration in the face of world events that 
seem to grind inexorably on toward some disaster 
too ghastly to imagine. Some of these conspiracy 
theories are farfetched, some are laughable, and 
some are pretty nasty—but all provide maps of real- 
ity which clearly point out those to blame for the cur- 
rent mess. 
In contrast to the explanations of the Marxist left, 
where the struggle between impersonal economic 
classes decides the course of history, the typical 
right-wing conspiracy theory usually identifies a spe- 
cific and compact cabal of conspirators as the cause 
of our misery. 
In other times these dastardly fiends 
have been identified as Freemasons, agents of the 
Vatican, or Elders of Zion, but the favored choice of 
contemporary conspiratologists is the International 
Bankers. 
Your run-of-the-mill conservative might froth at the 
mouth over the infiltration of communists into the 
media and government, but the conspiracy buff 
knows this is only a red herring (as it were), and that 
commies are not the rea/ threat. No sir. The com- 
mies are merely dupes of the financiers who really 
run the show. 
Ca 
Jay Kinney keeps close tabs on the factionalisms and schisms on both the left and right ends of the political spectrum, specializ- 
ing in fringe groups that are outside the mainstream. His excellent overviews and commentaries have appeared in numerous publi- 
cations, including the various Whole Earth Catalogs, the Whole Earth Review, and in a now-defunct syndicated newspaper feature 
called “Cover-Up Lowdown.” And, along with Paul Mavrides, Kinney’s edited four issues of that celebration of outré politics, An- 
archy Comics ($2.50 each plus $1.50 shipping per order from Last Gasp, 2180 Bryant St., San Francisco, CA 94110). This field 
guide is a newly updated version of conspiracy surveys that appeared in Critique (see p. 96) and Re/Search (Re/Search Publications, 
20 Romolo St., Suite B, San Francisco, CA 94133). 
—TS. 
93 
American Opinion 
