Artistic Inspiration shares 
similarities with channeling. 
Charles Dickens, depicted 
here in a nineteenth-century 
cartoon, said that many of 
his characters appeared to 
him effortlessly, while dozing. 
about spirits, on the assumption that it belongs to the lit- 
erature of spiritualism. One can very well read the book 
without resorting to any such hypothesis or theory, and 
take it simply as a report of psychological facts or a con- 
tinuous series of communications from the uncon- 
scious—which is, indeed, what it is really about. 
. 
. 
. Ac- 
tivated portions of the unconscious assume the character 
of personalities when they are perceived by the conscious 
mind . .. These phenomena exist im their own right, re- 
gardless of the way they are interpreted, and it is beyond 
all doubt that they are genuine manifestations of the un- 
conscious. The communications of “spirits” are state- 
ments about the unconscious psyche, provided they are 
really spontaneous and are not cooked up by the con- 
scious mind. They have this in common with dreams; for 
dreams, too, are statements about the unconscious, which 
is why the psychotherapist uses them as a first-class 
source of information. 
[Italics added.] 
If channeling is communication from the unconscious 
mind rather than from discarnate entities, the information 
may nonetheless be of great value. In 1865, the German 
chemist August Kekule (1829-1896), frustrated by the 
problem of how to join six carbon atoms so that they are 
all equivalent, dreamed of a snake holding its tail in its 
mouth. In the morning he awoke to the realization that 
carbon atoms could be formed into a circle, and discov- 
ered the benzene ring. The German-American archaeolo- 
gist Herman Volrath Hilprecht (1859-1925) once labored 
for months trying to reassemble the pieces of a broken an- 
cient Assyrian clay tablet. One night a priestess of Bel 
appeared to him in a dream and showed him how to fit the 
pieces together. When he awoke, he found that it worked. 
Most artists and writers do not know where their ideas 
come from. Often the best they can do is optimize their 
working conditions and wait for their “muse.” The enti- 
ties of channeling—warriors and princesses from ancient 
kingdoms, space brothers from star-spanning galactic 
civilizations, and godlike beings controlling human af- 
fairs—tresemble the fictional characters of science fiction, 
fantasy, and mythology. Can the material that arises in 
channeling have its origin in the same mental realm that, 
in writers and artists, produces fiction and imaginary 
landscapes? Just as Erich “Chariots of the Gods” Von 
Daniken underestimates the ability of ancient humans to 
construct archaeological wonders, thus drawing fantastic 
conclusions about ancient astronauts, perhaps we have 
underestimated the power of our own imaginations, attrib- 
uting their products instead to external entities possessing 
more intelligence, creativity, or enlightenment than we 
credit to ourselves. 
Jung concluded a lecture on spiritualistic phenomena 
delivered in 1905 with the following words: 
So far as miraculous reports in the literature are con- 
cerned, we should, for all our criticism, never lose sight 
of the limitations of our knowledge, otherwise something 
embarassingly human might happen, making us feel as 
foolish as the academicians felt over Chladni’s meteors,!° 
or the highly respected Bavarian Board of Physicians 
over the railway.'' Nevertheless, I believe that the pres- 
ent state of affairs gives us reason enough to wait quietly 
until more impressive physical phenomena put in an ap- 
pearance. 
If, after making allowance for conscious and 
unconscious falsification, self-deception, prejudice, etc., 
we should still find something positive behind them, then 
the exact sciences will surely conquer this field by ex- 
periment and verification, as has happened in every 
other realm of human experience. That many spiritual- 
ists brag about their “science” and “scientific knowl- 
edge” is, of course, irritating nonsense. These people are 
lacking not only in criticism but in the most elementary 
knowledge of psychology. At the bottom they do not 
want to be taught any better, but merely to go on believ- 
ing—surely the naivest of presumptions in view of our 
human failings. [Italics added. ] 
It is now over eighty-five years since Jung made these 
observations, and we are still waiting quietly for those 
“more impressive physical phenomena” that will demon- 
strate that channeling is something other than upwellings 
of the unconscious. Meanwhile, millions of people seem 
content to “go on believing” in what philosopher Paul 
Kurtz has called the twentieth-century version of “spiritu- 
alism without the frills.” 
'0 Jung is referring to the stubborn denial of nineteenth-century 
astronomers to accept Chladni’s assertion that meteorites origi- 
nated in outer space. (See “The Blind Eye of Science,” p. 102.) 
'! Jung is referring to the assertion of medical men before the 
opening of the first German railway that the speed of the trains 
would cause dizziness in travelers and onlookers, and would 
sour the milk of cows grazing near the tracks. 
65 
