Channeling 
As you might expect, there are a lot of channeling books 
out there right now. 
At least two others even share the same 
title as John Klimo’'s book, but his is the only one | can recom- 
mend. 
Unlike the others, Klimo’s makes an effort to present 
the many sides of this complex subject, including a broad his- 
tory and at least a little on psychological interpretations and 
the skeptical viewpoint. 
Klimo is clearly convinced that channeling is a supernatu- 
ral phenomenon, and, unfortunately, much of his book is de- 
voted to freewheeling speculation, glossing over or excusing 
the obvious inconsistencies between channeled teachings, 
and promoting his own favorite explanation: the Jungian collec- 
tive unconscious. 
But the book’s strong point is Klimo’s com- 
mendable research job, which provides useful thumbnail biog- 
raphies of modern and historical channels, interesting back- 
grounds on and excerpts from some of the major channeled 
texts, and a diversity of viewpoints culled from the literature 
and from original interviews. 
—T.S. 
e 
In 1970, the alleged entity “Michael” first made its pres- 
ence known to a thirty-three-year-old San Francisco Bay area 
woman. 
The channel is called Jessica Lansing (a fictitious 
name) in the best-selling books by Chelsea Quinn Yarbro, 
Messages from Michael and More Messages from Michael. 
These books have made “Michael” one of the best known of 
the channeling cases that have come to prominence in the 
last few years. 
Recently, more than half a dozen others in the San Fran- 
cisco area have been claiming to channel the same “Michael” 
by various means, including automatic writing, light trance, 
and full trance. 
This multi-cchanneled manifestation of the 
same supposed source makes the “Michael” material of spe- 
cial interest to us... 
To those who gather at his sessions, “Michael” refers to 
channeling as one of the chief methods for growth “by which 
your false personality is set aside so that there may be inner 
dialogue with the essence.” 
Yet he often is reported to grow 
impatient with the petty, private questions of those who seek 
his counsel, reminding them, at one point, “We are not the 
Ann Landers of the Cosmos.” 
Apparently wishing to set a 
more serious and responsible tone, “Michael” added, “We 
would like to point out to you at this time that many of you are 
dabblers 
. 
. 
. you dabble in spiritual growth as well 
. 
. 
. Stop 
for a moment and ask yourself why it is that you search and 
for what.” 
After years of channeling “Michael,” Jessica asks herself: 
“Do | believe it? The only answer | can give is: sometimes.” 
e 
Perhaps the best-known channel of musical material from 
supposed spirit sources was London housewife Rosemary 
Brown, who had no musical education. 
Brown’s autobiographi- 
cal book Unfinished Symphonies chronicles her lifelong asso- 
ciation with the supposed spirits of such great composers as 
Liszt, Beethoven, Debussy, Chopin, Schubert, and Bach. 
More than four hundred new compositions are reported to 
have come through her in this manner. 
She claimed that the 
Spirit of the nineteenth-century Liszt visited her in a clairvoyant 
vision when she was seven and promised that he would work 
with her as she got older. 
Channeling 
Attn: Cash Sales 
Investigations on 
175 Fifth Ave. 
Receiving Information 
New York, NY 10010 
from Paranormal 
800/221-7945 
Sources 
Jon Klimo 
1987; 384 pp. 
$18.95 
($20.45 postpaid) from: 
St. Martin’s Press 
pages and put the book back, but, amazingly, her uncon- 
scious mind had somehow not only retained the words 
and music, but remembered the book’s title and the page 
number where the song could be found. The song was 
“Summer is Icumen In,” written in medieval English 
words and published in Musiikin Vaiheet, a Finnish trans- 
lation of The History of Music by Benjamin Britten and 
Imogen Holst. Her unconscious had somehow registered 
and stored a fleeting perception, only to dredge it up and 
use it years later in the construction of a past-life fantasy! 
Could cryptomnesia be responsible for the material 
that comes through in channeling? Like past-life memo- 
ries, most channeled information superficially seems ut- 
terly foreign to the experience of the channel. But closer 
examination often demonstrates otherwise. Edgar 
Cayce’s trance readings on matters of health, for instance, 
owe a lot to a homeopathic physician named Wesley 
Ketchum, with whom he associated in his early years, 
while his readings on occult philosophy stem from his as- 
sociation with Arthur Lammers and other Theosophists 
who were attracted to him. In turn, many of the pro- 
nouncements of the popular modern-day trance channel 
Kevin Ryerson can be traced to Cayce’s teachings, which 
he is known to have studied at the Association for Re- 
search and Enlightenment in Virginia Beach, Virginia. 
Helen Schucman, the psychologist who channeled the 
immensely popular Course in Miracles, is personally be- 
wildered by its supposed source: Jesus Christ. But Esalen 
co-founder Michael Murphy points out: “She was raised 
on that kind of literature. Her father owned a metaphysi- 
cal bookshop.” And transpersonal psychologist Ken Wil- 
ber says: “There’s much more of Helen in the Course than 
I first thought. She was brought up mystically inclined. 
At four she used to stand out on the balcony and say that 
God would give her a sign of miracles to let her know that 
he was there. Many ideas from the Course came from the 
new thought or metaphysical schools she had been influ- 
enced by. . 
. 
. | found also that if you look at Helen’s own 
poetry, you’re initially very hard pressed to find any dif- 
ference between that and the Course.” 
Charles Tart, one of the foremost modern parapsy- 
chologists (see page 67), has this to say about channeling: 
“From my studies with hypnosis, I know that I can set up 
an apparently independent existent entity whose charac- 
teristics are constructed to my specification. And the per- 
son hypnotized will experience that as if it’s something 
outside of his own consciousness talking. So there’s no 
doubt that some cases of channeling can be explained in a 
conventional kind of way. There’s nothing psychic in- 
volved.”° 
In the ’80s we’ve seen channeled entities whose mes- 
Sages are mostly sweetness and light, with a pinch of fire 
and brimstone sprinkled in for good measure. For in- 
stance, predictions by Edgar Cayce and other channels of 
vast, destructive earth changes that will destroy much of 
*Murphy, Wilber, and Tart are quoted in Channeling by John 
Klimo; see review, this page. 
