force in an unspecified way. Like Giragossian, he seeks 
patent protection through Congress. Like Orffyreus, he is 
aggressive, obstreperous, and abusive with skeptics. And 
like Orffyreus, Keely, Burke, Kenyon, and numerous 
other inventors, Newman has found people with credible 
scientific credentials to endorse his invention. 
Conclusion 
Most people couldn’t state the laws of thermodynam- 
ics on a bet, but they instinctively know that there is no 
such thing as a free lunch. When confronted with a New- 
man Energy Machine, they ask questions like, “Why not 
hook the motor up to a DC generator, use the output to 
drive the motor and a dynamometer, and get rid of that 
silly battery pack?” 
There is another sort, though, who are perpetually sus- 
Perpetual Motion Believers 
As Robert Schadewald points out, perpetual motion re- 
search is alive and well, though it’s been given new names by 
today’s seekers after the inventor’s grail. These two books 
are a good place to start if you want to directly familiarize your- 
self with this subculture. 
The Perpetual Motion Mystery reprints the work of per- 
petual motionist Irwin R. Barrows, who in 1967 published The 
Perpetual Motion Handbook and the first of four issues of the 
Perpetual Motion Journal. The Handbook and all four issues 
of the Journal are reprinted in the book, as well as fifty extra 
pages by R.A. Ford, mostly on Orffyreus’ Wheel. Don’t expect 
finesse—a lot of the pages were done on a typewriter, and 
others were copied straight out of old books, magazines, and 
patent applications. But everything is readable, and the un- 
polished pages give the book that homemade feel that con- 
noisseurs of fringe theories cherish. 
That homemade feel also characterizes The Manual of 
Free Energy Devices and Systems, which avoids the term 
“perpetual motion.” The Manual is a potpourri of plans, pat- 
ent descriptions, personality profiles of favorite free-energy in- 
ventors (Nicola Tesla is canonized in this world), reprinted ar- 
ticles, fuzzy photographs, and great diagrams. As an added 
bonus, besides “free-energy” and “over-unity” devices, you'll 
be introduced to anti-gravity machines as well. 
—T.S. 
e 
The scientific work of T.J.J. See of the 1930’s has been 
largely unknown and/or ignored by the scientific community for 
all the years since its first introduction. 
Nov. 10, 1959 
©. T. CARR 
AMUSDAENT DEVICE 
2,912,244 
Filed Jan. 82, 1000 
Boeote-—Shoot & 
0.T. Carr's Amusement Device, Nov. 10, 1959. The caption reads: 
“NOTE: This is some kind of "Amusement Device'—one that can be 
used to explore the worlds around us!!! Wake up you Physicist's" 
—The Manual of Free Energy Devices and Systems 
128 
picious of Power and Authority. These people seem to 
think the laws of thermodynamics are part of the Oil 
Company Plot to suppress the legendary 200 mile-per-gal- 
lon carburetor. If they don’t seek perpetual motion them- 
selves, they are eager to endorse someone else’s “discov- 
ery.” I believe the persona I assumed in my Schadewald 
Gravity Engine spoof—earnest, slightly paranoid, altruis- 
tic but seeking recognition—is fairly typical of the breed. 
(Certainly it struck a responsive cord with those readers 
taken in by the hoax, for they inundated me with letters.) 
Nothing changes. Unless I miss my guess, perpetual 
motion will never be discovered but will ever be sought. 
Education is only a partial defense, for it cures ignorance, 
but not delusion. The dream of unlimited energy will 
keep those who rebel against the laws of physics in per 
petual motion. 
: 
It has been said that See had the unfortunate tendency 
“to come on too strongly” with his theories which was usually 
interpreted by astronomer colleagues as being “arrogant ego- 
tism” rather than “studied conviction” which it apparently was. 
... See's anti-gravity theory explains how a rotating body 
effects gravity, as was vividly demonstrated by John Searl, and 
Otis Carr in their anti-gravity experiments. According to this 
theory, when a symmetrical metallic body is rotated at a criti- 
cal speed, the surrounding ether is set in motion which pro- 
duces an ether vacuum, which prevents the transmission of 
gravitational forces to the rotational body. 
The well-known psychic, Edgar Cayce identified T.J.J. See 
“as a scientist with a sound theory to the solution to the 
riddle of gravitation.” 
—Manual of Free Energy Devices and Systems 
e __ Advice to Perpetual Motion Inventors 
Because of the many past failures of Perpetual Motion, the 
author suggests that no one spend more time or money for 
this search than they are willing to lose. One early inventor 
tore up his wife’s wedding dress to obtain covering for some 
wire. Your family is your responsibility and should come first. 
Because the mentally unbalanced do things which set them 
apart from the general population, the Perpetual Motion inven- 
tor should be conservative in his actions and speech. Don’t 
imitate the man who walked into the office of the electric 
power company and told all the secretaries to quit work be- 
cause his Perpetual Motion invention would soon put them all 
out of work. 
—The Perpetual Motion Mystery 
The Perpetual Motion Mystery 
A Continuing Quest 
eee 
R.A. Ford 
er 
1986; 193 pp. 
| 
$9.95 
($10.70 postpaid) from: 
Lindsay Publications 
P.O. Box 12 
Bradley, IL 60915-0012 
815/468-3668 
The Manual of Free Energy 
Devices and Systems 
Compiled by D.A. Kelly 
1986; 123 pp. 
$12.95 
($14.20 postpaid) from: 
Adventures Unlimited 
P.O. Box 22 
Stelle, IL 60919 
815/253-6390 
