— 
Truck Store 
We decided that “Gripe Page” was more limited than we 
really want to be here. So it’s gripes, trips & ramblings, 
suggestions, & pretty much whatever folks have to say. 
GRIPES 
1. People who gripe & don’t sign their name. 
2. People who order books within Calif. and don *t include 
the 5% sales tax. —Alan— 
3. *OZiH+%&+$@ People who don’t use their ZIP 
CODE. —Alan— 
. People who throw trash in Bernie’s Box! —Bernie 
. People who gripe! —Jerry Fihn 
- People who make rules about signing gripes. —Les 
. People who send too much money for books. 
ur 
an 
a” 
not enough 
7” 
or 
a” 
NOOK 
—Alan—_ 
8. LET'S STOP TAKING EACH OTHER'S PENS 
5; 
—GEORGE 
9. People whose orders are not crystal clear. 
—George 
People who order subscriptions or issues. 
—George 
Neo-Nazis & other “‘patriots’’ who send us their shitty 
rags & mags in the mail. —Peter 
AA 
Introducing: Divine Right Davenport 
Poor old Divine Right Davenport, somehow on one kind of 
dope and another he’d damaged himself, destroyed his speech, 
got so he couldn't finish half of any sentence he started, just 
couldn’t talk anymore, that’s all. 
Estelle didn’t much mind, half a sentence was as good as a 
whole to her. After the kind of three months truck trip 
they'd been on together, their heads were so close, their 
private sign language so refined, she just filled in whatever 
blanks D. R. left and made as much sense as they had any 
immediate use for. 
But there were other things than sense, other ways to be 
than sensible, and from time to time D. R. needed them. 
He needed to get off to himself, away from the truck, away 
from hitch-hikers, away from how Estelle was always fin- 
ishing his sentences for him. 
“After while, back,” he muttered, and set out into the trees. 
Walking tree dark downhill walking moon the trees first 
time long time, clumping along jolting body a long soft 
road through smells like these and sounds. Frogs, over 
there in the drainage. Frogs and dogs back on the hill- 
top somewhere. Up there an airplane, I reckon Ill rest 
a while, just sit myself down on a stump in this little circle 
of trees. You ought to of come here a long time ago D.R._ 
It’s easy to speak in all this quiet I hope to say anything I 
want to. Say grease. Say flats. Say rolling miles say speed 
say rolling forever the world outside the broken windshield. 
Just, say it, like that old frog croaking into his croak for 
pure fun. Speak into talk for fun, half a tongue flapping 
for exercise that might just heal it. Frogs speak. Dogs speak. 
Airplane speak down through this speaking circle of trees 
where I sit speaking. All of us here in the woods in the 
dark under the moon speaking whatever songs are native. 
Silence as the talker’s premise, stillness as the dancer's. 
Shapely, shapely. Quiet in the face of it automatically 
talk a shapely song. Don’t move, don’t even ask what if 
silence is what you want to sing about. Don’t even bring 
that up in front of these jealous trees, and don’t interrupt 
frogs with questions, either. They don’t want your old 
loves and deaths, your old lost fucks and funerals. No 
replays. No half-tongued solos. Yesterday’s hit, this 
morning’s flash, no more’n.old browsings in courthouse 
files where parents are recorded, stacks of some aunt’s 
letters from a sailor committed suicide. Forget it. Forget 
the truck. Forget what’s her name. Turn out the lights 
on all those faces, make a dark out here without saying 
weary, without saying sleep, don’t say the memory of a 
blanket either, filled with sun in an old back yard we may 
pass again some day if we travel long enough, maybe 
_ 
stop in to see who lives there now, see if they recognize 
a half-tongued freak with rings on his thumbs, half- 
words pouring out rusty cans and broken glass all over 
his shirt front all over these lovely trees oh man Jesus 
help me I got the verbal dry heaves. ‘‘Estelle!” 
Gurney Norman 
hn SS he 
Delta Mist Is Here 
Delta Mist arrived March 14, 1970. On March 14, 1990, 
she will be twenty years old. Maybe she'll find an old 
dog-eared copy of this issue of the Catalog in a trunk 
somewhere, and read it on that occasion. 
If so, hello 
Delta Mist in 1990! And hello to your mother Pam, who 
way back in ’70.cooked lunch at the truck store, and to 
your father J.D., who became the new store manager, just 
a few days after you were born. 
Frederick the Mouse 
With all the books for children that have been suggested for the 
CATALOG, | can’t figure out why nobody’s mentioned Frederick. 
Frederick’s a poet, artist, composer, mouse. Moral’s the reverse of 
thie grasshopper/ant story: - us lazy creative folks are important, too. 
Frederick. 
Leo Lionni. $3.50 from Pantheon Books, 457 Madison 
Avenue, NYC 10022 
cappy 
Canadian Whole Earth Almanac 
Tracy and Barbara McCallum and Alan Burton are presently 
in the process of putting together a Canadian version of the 
Whole Earth truck store and catalog. Working with people in 
Toronto and elsewhere, the catalog will be entitled The Can- 
adian Whole Earth Almanac, a non-profit organization and to 
be published this year in Toronto. The Almanac will contain 
CANADIAN sources for many of the items listed in the W.E.C., 
in addition to material particularly relevant to the Canadian 
consumer. 
Any suggestions in regard to funding or ideas anyone might 
have in regard to access or tools and items that are similar to 
the ones carried in the W.E.C. but available in Canada would 
be very welcome and gratefully perused. Suggestions and 
ideas should be sent to: 
CANADIAN WHOLE EARTH ALMANAC 
Whole Earth Truck Store and Catalog. 
558 Santa Cruz Avenue. 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
Quite a bit of information has already been collected and 
collated and it looks real good from here and now. Let's 
get it on for our Canadian Brothers and Sisters. Shanti. 
~ Some of us at Whole Earth. are trained and have worke 
Electroniks 
eo ae 
electronics. We are frankly dubious as to what the catalog _ 
can do with electronics, or, more accurately, what can peo 
do with electronics? (Somebody once suggested that elect: 
sex aids be included on the electronics page.) 
== 
The only way | have thought of to present electronics is 
through some kind 
of skills chart (ugg!) to sort us out into 
levels and provide information at each level. Like, a kit 
builder doesn’t need a Tektronix catalog. (Or a ham, or—_ 
almost everyone else.) 
5, 
Ral 
world wide, people-to-people communications network- 
and any publication aspiring to be an “access to tools” 
would naturally further this concept. 
KE 
io. 
Ham radio has a helluva potential for such a concept, 
bu 
its mostly being wasted at this point in conversing about BF 
weather, equipment, signal strength——or that most ago. 
izing of inane acitivty, QSL‘ing. Maybe CB is better in 
tion to advanced design. We need information on sources 
fo: 
parts and equipment. We need information concerning 
indi- — 
viduals and/or groups doing good things with radio, TV, e 
tronics. 
disc 
Nor will the section be limited to radio. We plan 
to range 
from basic theory to construction skills to, and including, 
design & experimental development; from audio to vide: 
microwave; from stereo tape systems to remote contr 
mechanisms to computers to lasers. 
¥ 
i. 
Any takers? 
Les 
ae 
Discrete transistors (where electronics was 10 years ago) 
are 
very easy to work with. It is far easier to get into construction 
— 
and design with transistors than it ever was with tubes. 
No 
chassis, no heavy components to mount, no high voltage, 
— 
power supply can be a battery, etc. Very cheap, too. Trying 
| 
to work with ‘‘state of the art’’ components (wherever t 
‘ 
is now) is very expensive, parts are difficult to get and 
information is often unreliable. 
_ 
Bas. 
Sometimes it is not necessary to actually design circui 
.! 
Just pick out a ready made circuit or circuit design, put 
it together, and presto! 
; 
ae 
Also, it is not necessary to make new things to use ele 
It is nice to be able to repair things, and it is often po 
to modify something old. TY into oscilloscope, etc. 
Some books we are considering. Reviews welcome. 
__ 
Various Silicon Controlled Rectifier Manuals (IRC, Motoro 
GE). Suggested by Marv Vickers. 
an 
Elements of Radio by Marcus and Marcus. Prentice-Hall, 
1965; $8.50. Suggested by Wayne Egan 
Reference Data for Radio Engineers by |T&T Corp. Ar 
Kepco Pewer Supply Handbook, Kepco, Inc., Flushing, 
$3.75. Suggested by Marv Vickers. 
a 
High Fidelity Systems by Roy F. Allison. Dover 
ah 
Publications, NY, $1.25. 
ime <i. 
Basic Electronics, 6 vol; Basic Electricity, 5 vol, by 
ens 
Valkenburgh, Nooger & Neville. John F. Rider, New — 
York. $2.75 each vol. 
_ 
; 
Fred 
Another Possibility — 
a 
avian. bs [ 
The guys at Whole Earth Access Co. in Berkeley have — 
evolved this good vision: 
Ms 
The idea is to start a WHOLE EARTH FOUNDATIO 
three main functions: 
Me 
(1) Provide a simplified way for W.E. stores to stock : 
one digs keeping extensive files, not everyone can hand 
the bookkeeping. By doing a WHOLESALE 
gig, w 
supply stores w/ most all their stock at essentially 
same discount they could get dealing direct with the 
publisher or manufacturer. All this on a single account 
— 
basis! 
ai 
7H sete ce 
(2) Profits would go into a fund to help new stores ge 
together. The money could also be used for various 
projects. 
oe 
(3) Develop techniques toward the establish 
The project is still coming together——all ideas 
warnings, help, etc., etc. are welcome. 
: 
Obviously we can’t make any offers yet for 
(1) 
or (2) gainful employment. 
: 
