Really! 
| would like to suggest for inclusion in your catalog an 
organization entitled Everything For Everybody, 43 Eighth 
Ave., New York, N. Y. 10014, 
If you want something done or want to do something——to 
hire someone or to find full or part time work——to buy or 
sell something——to find a place to live——in brief, if you 
want anything——there is one organization in the world that 
can do anything for anybody. That organization is Every- 
thing for Everybody. 
Everybody with money, that is. Membership in this organ- 
ization is $5.00 a year or $15.00 lifetime. After that you 
pay an additional fee when you get whatever it is that you 
want. This can be around $10.00, sometimes higher, 
sometimes lower. 
The organization has branches throughout the world and 
if you have the dough and want something that might 
otherwise be hard to get, Everything for Everybody isa 
good way to get what you want. 
Thank you. 
Scott Sparling 
Jackson, Michigan 
Sour Power 
Look, I’m serious about this! Everybody’s talking about 
the internal combustion engine and the pile-up of hydro- 
carbons. 
I’ve got an idea. Put out an all-points bulletin 
to all your practical physicists. 
The electric car is practical except it has no regenerative 
power when in locomotion——right? O.K. ——Take an 
empty 55 gal. drum, pour in 20 gal. of untreated water, 
*60 Ibs. sugar, the required nutrients to induce a healthy 
fermentation, add a good high tolerance yeast and then 
through a small port in the upper side or top connect 
it through a pinhole port to a turbine or miniture steam- 
type engine which is in turn connected to a generator to 
regenerate the batteries of the electric motor. 
Sit down and slowly read the 128 pages of the Upanishads 
by Mentor Classics. 
If this takes you 24 hours at a temper- 
ature of 70°and your generator isn’t turning, something is 
wrong with the fermentation. 
lf the motor is turning fast, stand back——the damn thing 
might blow up! 
Joe Keenan 
Placerville, CA 
Paul Bandy Suggests, Beautifully 
We got the Fall 69 edition of your catalogue a few weeks 
ago and are very much pleased. We read it instead ofa 
newspaper. 
| have thought of a few items that | think will 
enrich its pages. 
| am enclosing three reviews, the Spanish 
Mustang Horse, Breaking and Training the Stock Horse, 
Desert Plants and People. 
| hope you will find room for 
them in the next issue. 
THE SPANISH MUSTANG HORSE 
For anyone who needs a good, tough, dependable, intelligent, 
quick, sure-footed, little horse, the Spanish Mustang is the 
answer. 
The horse of the Spanish conquerors, Indian pony, and original 
wild horse has suffered as bad a fate as his native American masters. 
Castrated, crossbred and shot for dog food, he is almost extinct. 
There is now a registry, founded by Bob and Ferdinand Brislawn, 
for the preservation of the mustang horse. Most of the foundation 
stock was caught wild in remote areas or found on Indian reser- 
vations. 
They are small horses (12 to 14.2 hands). Their speed, endurance, 
and ability to withstand hard winters on little food is legendary. 
One Mustang, Yellow Fox, won the 100 mile Bitterroot, Montana, 
endurance ride at age eighteen. They come in conventional colors 
——bay, sorrel, black, chestnut——and in many others——blue and 
red roan. medicine hat, grulla, bluecorn, buckskin, claybank, overo 
paint, steeldust... 
They make good pack, cart, children, saddle, or even light plow 
horses. Mustangs are priced from cheap ($100 to $150 for a 
registered colt) to expensive, depending on the breeder. Most 
breeders are old-timers and reasonable. We bought three last 
\ 
year in Wyoming and are very well satisfied. They are remarkably 
fast learners. 
For information and breeders list write: 
18 
Information Headquarters 
Bob Racicot, Exec. Secretary 
Box 26, Thompson Falls, Montana 59873 
# Origami 
= other countries and best of all he can teach how to fold paper. ss 
= by Sam, plus instructions for folding those that don’t require 
Letter Writing — in every tongue for any purpose 
Lettering — signs, fabrics, invitations 
Library Research — any subject, anyplace, anytime 
Linoleum Layers — home or office 
P. O. Envelopes 
For your next Supplement you might want to include the infor- 
mation that the United States Post Office, through local post 
offices, will sell you stamped envelopes imprinted neatly (see 
ours) with your name and address, maximum four lines, plenty 
of letters per line. The cost is just a little over a penny for envelope 
and printing. Orders must be in lots of 500, and may be for air 
mail, surface, legal size or regular, and even window envelopes, 
the Jatter probably a bit more expensive. You must pay in 
advance and expect to wait four to five weeks for delivery to your 
door by your postman. 500 legal size (No. .1 0) envelopes with 
six cent stamps, imprinted with name and address, costs $36.45, 
or just under 7.3¢ per envelope. One No. 10 6¢ envelope without 
printing costs 8¢ from the same postmaster. 
Love, 
Bob Aitken 
Haibu, Hawaii 
Old Age — guidance consultants 
F 
Orchestras & Bands — 
private parties & commercial 
Organization — if able to be — we can 
Theater — personnel, locations, props 
Time of Day — when you wonder — call 
Tours — to everywhere — walk, bike, bus, boat, plane 
Wives — for would-be husbands 
Window — cleaning — commercial & residential 
Window Guards — gates, locks — installed 
Writers — for every imaginable assignment 
22222 — which means we do everything for everybody 
Human Relations Area Files, Inc. (HRAF) 
Box 2054 Yale Station 
New Haven, Conn. 06520 
sells documents from the world of the social sciences, some 
| would like to suggest Sam and Jean Randlett’s two books 
on Origami: The Art of Origami, and The Best of Origami, 
both published by E. P. Dutton and Co., New York. “Art” 
was published in 1961, and “Best” a couple of years later. 
Also highly recommended is a little monthly publication 
; 
: 
put out by Sam called ‘’The Flapping Bird’, back issues and 
of which could be useful to people who tike to research 
maybe some new ones available from Jay Marshall, 5082N. 
 & their ues before they take them. In this fespace the 
Lincoln Avenue, Chicago, IIlinois 60625. Sam is a remarkable = bibliographies are best. For example, Murdock 5 Ei 
man: he knows all the best paper-folders in this and several: 
3 9rap hic Bibliography on North AITIENCAL AT: W hich ee be 
3 found a nearly complete listing of all materials published 
The illustrations by Jean (who died last year) are remarkably 
ss mete 1960 or the Indians of North America north of 
easy to follow. I’ve seen some examples of origami at Sam’s 
3 
Cee including plenty of material on the use of plants, 
house that are simply unbelievably complex and beautiful. 
g, 
the preparation of shell fish, domicile ed and design, 
The two books contain photographs of the better ones taken 
organized by cunure group, which Is to say, regionally and 
f 
locally. If you live in north eastern Utah or Watertown, 
: 
NY, there is something for you. HRAF also has biblio- 
"a 
graphies on Indonesia, Siberia, the Middle East,South 
America, Afghanistan, the Circum-Mediterranean peasantry 
and Europe. Murdock’s book sells for $9.00. 
ED 
Thanks, 
§ 
six extra fingers and a twisted concept of space. Great way 
to spend time when the TV is busted. The books are about 
$6.00, the Mag $6/year. 
Yours truly, 
|
William T. Powers 
Barry S. Kast 
: 
ea 
Northbrook, Ill. 
Buffalo, N. Y. 
a 
Dropping Out, etc. 
® Many of us who have ‘dropped out’ in the search for alternatives 
a 
have no way of paying for the publication tools and learning plough- 
shares necessary to building, even the Whole Earth Catalogue. While 
books such as Tantra Art are magnificent, | have all but forgotten 
what colour a Canadian $32.50 bill looks like. Very often, if you 
write a few paragraphs to a publisher or distributor or the editor of 
a periodical (make it neat, typed, straight and loving——you are 
being done a service) telling what you are about, why and who for 
you want to write a review of the book (making absolutely certain 
wie 
the book has not already been reviewed in that publication——pub- — 
Cag 
lishers have publicity depts.), you can receive 
acomplimentary. 
review copy, even if the book is several years old. Books always 
=o 
2 
have a certain number of copies allotted to be sent to reviewers 
a4 
(around 100 to 200 copies, usually), so it is better to get to the 
publisher right at publication, although there may be some left 
over. You don’t need to check with the periodical you wish to» 
review for; it is better to submit a review unsolicited. 
If they 
Pa 
accept your review, rather than take money as payment, particularly 
: 
with smaller and more radical publications, ask for an exchange 
subscription. That is real sharing of resources: 
you get a groovy 
book and another periodical you have to read, a publisher, usually 
deserving, gets some good publicity, his author gets some nice 
royalties, a needy periodical gets a worthwhile review (you have 
to judge that) promoting its circulation and bettering its content, 
and lots of nice people learn about a groovy book. But do the 
review you said you would unless the book is. bad; if it is, write 
and tell the publisher. 
He'll thank you, but he may ask for the 
book back, but if it’s such a bad book, well, you don’t want it 
sat 
anyway. Dig it. 
‘ 
$ 
ce 
ON ALTERNATIVE ECONOMY: 
gi 
The Sharing Plan (Mary Kae Josh, 4522 Pine, Philadelphia, PA 
; 
19143), of which we are a part is small and came out of the 
peacemakers orientation program in nonviolence in 1966, but is 
looking to develop regionally. Each applicant must be recommended 
— 
$ 
and approved by all members. Voluntary contributions by all 
provide a fund for any contingency of any member, having per- 
centage to withdraw, without paying it back until surplus exists. 
It works for us; problem is getting people to use it rather than just 
have it there. Write for details. 
ON FEEDING THE POOR AND HUNGRY 
As vegetarians, we have found International Vegetarian Cookery 
by Sonyar Ichmund ($1.75 from Arco Publishing Company, 219 
Park Avenue South, New York, New York 10003) to be the best 
for staple, simple and delicious fare requiring no exotic ingredients. — 
The dishes are sumptuous and inexpensive. 
£. 
a 
Also: Breaking and Training the Stock Horse by Charles 
O. Williamson, $7.50 from the Caxton Printers, Ltd., 
Caldwell, Idaho 83605, or from Charles O. Williamson, 
Hamilton, Montana 59840 
Desert Plants and People, by Sam Hicks. $5.95 from 
The Naylor Company, 1015 Culebra, San Antonio, 
Texas 78201 -) 
: Paul Bandy 
Blanco, Texas 
+ 
You will find, as we have, that books such as The Yoga Cookbook 
— 
» 
and The Natural Foods Cookbook by Beatrice Trum Hunter ($.95 
from Pyramid publications, 444 Madison Avenue, New York, 
New York 10022) are a little bit esoteric and heavy for people ~ 
with real stomachs who cannot spend all their time foraging for 
| 
food. 
> 
We wish to correspond with people about building change, about 
prisons (all kinds) and the draft, and will counsel anyone by mail, 
so please include our address. 
‘ 
Thanks. 
¥ 
Kamawi, No. 115, black stallion 
“His qualities are complete. Now he looks anxious; 
In Peace and Life, 
now to be losing the way; now to be forgetting 
himself. Such a horse prances along, or rushes on, 
spurning the dust and not knowing where he is.” 
Chuang-Tzu, Book XXIV, Part 111, Section II, 1 
Trans. James Legge 
. 
Frances and C. J. Hinke 
Willowdale, 444 
Ontario, CANADA 
26 Hounslow Avenue 
es: 
