The cities and freeways of California are a forecast of how 
the world, or at least the United States, may be one day, 
- if it survives its various immediate crises. Whether that’s 
good or bad depends on your point of view. It’s apparently 
good for all those people ‘still participating in the westward 
movement, flocking by the hundreds over the same trails 
and through the same mountain passes the trappers blazed 
a hundred and fifty years ago. I don’t sympathize with it, 
but I understand that point of view very well. When I was 
owing up in Kentucky in the 1940's and 1950's, the people 
was closest to were getting ready to migrate “west.” Their 
Big Rock Candy Mountain, (or “land of the honey pond 
and the fritter tree,” as my grandfather used to say) was 
actually Cincinnati, Dayton, Indianapolis, Chicago, Detroit; 
but the point remains the same: 
they were country people 
headed for the city, ex-miners, failed farmers, looking for a 
better place. My own path has been harder to trace, because 
it dips underground from time to time; but essentially it has 
been the same, metaphorically west from the country to the 
city, and actually west, to San Francisco Bay. 
The strange thing, the thing that I had no way of foreseeing, 
setting out in a ‘51 Ford with no first gear and eventually 
no reverse either after I tried to back across the Sierras and 
failed, was that my curious road was going to take me from 
‘the country to the city, only to land me smack in the middle 
A Sense of Place: KENTUCKY 
| 
We have lived by the assumption that what was good for us 
would be good for the world. And this has been based on the 
even flimsier assumption that we could know with any cer- 
tainty what was good even for us. We have fulfilled the danger 
of this by making our personal pride and greed the standard of 
our behavior toward the world——to the incalculable disad- 
vantage of the world and every living thing in it. And now, 
perhaps very close to too late, our great error has become 
clear. 
It is not only our own creativity——our own capacity 
for life——that is stifled by our arrogant assumption; the 
creation itself is stifled. 
We have been wrong. We must change our lives, so that it 
will be possible to live by the contrary assumption that what 
is good for the world will be good for us. And that requires 
_ 
that we make the effort to know the world and to learn what 
is good for it. We must learn to co-operate in its processes, 
and to yield to its limits. But even more important, we must 
learn to acknowledge that the creation is full of mystery; we 
will never entirely understand it. We must abandon arrogance 
and stand in awe. We must recover the sense of the majesty 
of creation, and the ability to be worshipful in its presence. 
For | do not doubt that it is only on the condition of humility 
and reverence before the world that our species will be able to 
remain in it. 
Standing in the presence of these worn and abandoned fields, 
where the creation has begun its healing without the hindrance 
or the help of man, with the voice of the stream in the air and 
the woods standing in silence on all the slopes around me, | 
am deep in the interior not only of my place in the world, 
but of my own life, its sources and searches and concerns. 
| first came into these places following the men to work when 
| was a child. | knew the men who took their lives from such 
fields as these, and their lives to a considerable extent made 
my life what it is. In what came to me from them there was 
both wealth and poverty, and | have been a long time discov- 
ering which was which. 
It was in the woods here along Camp Branch that Bill White, 
my grandfather’s Negro hired hand, taught me to hunt 
squirrels. 
Bill lived in a little tin-roofed house on up nearer 
the head of the hollow. And this was, | suppose more than 
any other place, his hunting ground. 
It was the place of his 
freedom, where he could move without subservience, without 
considering who he was or who anybody else was. On late 
summer mornings, when it was too wet to work, | would 
follow him into the woods. As soon as we stepped in under 
the trees he would become silent and absolutely attentive 
to the life of the place. He was a good teacher and an exac- 
ting one. The rule seemed to be that if | wanted to stay 
with him, | had to make it possible for him to forget | was 
there. 
| was to make no noise. 
If | did he would look back 
and make a downward emphatic gesture with his hand, as 
explicit as writing: Be quiet, or go home. He would see a 
squirrel crouched in a fork or lying along the top of a branch, 
and indicate with a grin and a small jerk of his head where | 
should look; and then wait, while |, conscious of being 
watched and demanded upon, searched it out for myself. He 
taught me to look and to listen and to be quiet. | wonder 
if he knew the value of such teaching or the rarity of such a 
teacher. 
In the years that followed | hunted often here alone. And 
later in these same woods | experienced my first obscure 
dissatisfactions with hunting. Though | could not have put 
it into words then, the sense had come to me that hunting 
as | knew it-—the eagerness to kill something | did not need 
to eat——was an artificial relation to the place, when what | 
was beginning to need, just as inarticulately then, was a 
relation that would be deeply natural and meaningful. That 
was a time of great uneasiness and restlessness for me. 
It 
would be the fall of the year, the leaves would be turning, and 
ahead of me would be another year of school. There would 
a 
of people much like myself, but ahead of me, who were 
working and planning or at least talking and fantasizing 
about getting back to the country again. 
Practically everybody I know in California is talking about 
“the land thing.” The visions I hear, almost daily, range 
from buying the northeast third of New Mexico, to getting 
‘a three-acre spread in Maine. People with access to half a 
million dollars of the old man’s loot are in the same dream 
with people saving three dollars a week in a glass jar. Land. 
Rural land. Land in the direction of east. Western drive 
has brought us here. Eastern serenity, or the desire for it, 
is nudging us back again. 
Probably everybody into “the land thing” would explain his 
motives in different, or at least personal, language. But I 
think the theme running through any variety of language 
would be the same. I think the thing we’re talking about 
is no more or less hard to understand than the simple 
desire to have ahome. A home, and a sense of home that 
can only grow out of a sense of place. Cities aren’t places 
any more. They're scenes, projected on screens, then 
bulldozed away, neighborhood by neighborhood, like 
cancelled TV shows. People who are tired of scenes are 
leaving, or wanting to anyway, longing for a place, torn 
between the joy of getting out of town, and a vague despair 
that maybe there aint no such thing as place after all, that 
be confusions about girls and ambitions, the wordless hur- 
ried feeling that time and events and my own nature were 
pushing me toward what | was going to be——and | had no 
notion what it was, or how to prepare. 
And then there were years when | did not come here at all—— 
when these places and their history were in my mind, and 
part of me, in places thousands of miles away. And now | 
am here:again, changed from what | was, and still changing. 
The future is no more certain to me now than it ever was, 
though its risks are clearer, and so are my own desires: 
| 
am the father of two young children whose lives are hostages 
given to.the future. Because of them aiid because of events 
in the world, life seems more fearful and difficult to me now 
than ever before. But it is also more inviting, and | am con- 
stantly aware of its nearness to joy. Much of the interest 
and excitement that | have in my life now has come from 
the deepening, in the years since my return here, of my 
relation to this countryside that is my native place. For in 
spite of all that has happened to me in other places, the 
great change and the great possibility of change in my 
life has been in my sense of this place. The major difference 
is perhaps only that | have grown able to be wholeheartedly 
present here. | am able to sit and be quiet at the foot of 
some tree here in this woods along Camp Branch, and feel 
a deep peace, both in the place and in my awareness of it, 
that not too long ago | was not conscious of the possibility 
of. This peace is partly in being free of the suspicion that 
pursued me for most of my life, no matter where | was, 
that there was perhaps another place | shou/d be, or would 
be happier or better in; it is partly in the increasingly 
articulate consciousness of being here, and of the signifi- 
cance and importance of being here. 
After more than thirty years | have at last arrived at the 
candor necessary to stand on this part of the earth that is 
so full of my own history and so much damaged by it, 
and ask: What /s this place? What is in it? What is its 
nature? How should men live in it? What must | do? 
| have not found the answers, though | believe that in 
partial and fragmentary ways they have begun to come 
to me. But the questions are more important than their 
answers. 
In the final sense they have no answers. They 
are like the questions——they are perhaps the same ques- 
tions——that were the discipline of Job. They are a part 
of the necessary enactment of humility, teaching a man 
what his importance is, what his responsibility is, and 
what his place is, both on the earth and in the order of 
things. And though the answers must always come 
obscurely and in fragments, the questions must be 
persistently asked. They are fertile questions. In their 
implications and effects, they are moral and aesthetic 
and, in the best and fullest sense, practical. They 
promise a relationship to the world that is decent and 
preserving. 
They are also, both in origin and effect, religious. | am 
uneasy with the term, for such religion as has been openly 
practiced in this part of the world has promoted and fed 
upon a destructive schism between body and soul, heaven 
and earth. It has encouraged people to believe that the 
world is of no importance, and that their only obligation 
in it is to submit to certain .churchly formulas in order to 
get to heaven. And so the people who might have been 
expected to care most selflessly for the world have had 
their minds turned elsewhere——to a pursuit of “‘salvation”’ 
that was really only another form of gluttony and self-love, 
the desire to perpetuate their own small lives beyond the 
life of the world. The heaven-bent have abused the 
earth thoughtlessly, but inattention, and their negligence 
has permitted and encouraged others to abuse it deliberately. 
Once the creator was removed from the creation, divinity 
became only a remote abstraction, a social weapon in the 
- 
maybe all there is to do is ride around in outfitted buses, 
floating along the bloodless traffic arteries of the world. 
ie, 
I guess the essential thing that sustains me as I try to live 
' 
in the California suburbs is the sense I carry around inmy 
mind that, in fact, there are some places left in the world 
pe 
that are very nice, places left over from how the world used. 
to be, continuing in a kind of time-warp that surrounds 
them like a shield. I’m sure there are similar places in 
every state. But the ones that I know about are in Kentucky, 
certain towns, certain counties that go on, and on. There’s 
a social fabric in those places intact from their very begin- 
nings as towns and counties, and what I wish is that that 
fabric could somehow be declared a national treasure, and 
given protection, like the mountain lion, or the California 
condor. That wont happen, of course. The fabric is already 
badly torn by new freeways and the coal industry, with 
strip-mining as its cutting edge. So I guess the best that 
one can hope for is that the surviving old places be studied 
as models for the new places about to create themselves. 
Wendell Berry is a Kentucky poet, novelist, teacher and 
farmer who has written eloquently about his decision to 
leave New York and return to his Kentucky homenlace 
to invest his life. This excerpt from his essay, “A Native 
¥: 
Hill,” creates an image of a man who has the sense of 
place most of the rest of us are looking for. 
ae 
hands of the religious institutions. This split in public 
values produced or was accompanied by, as it was bound 
to be, an equally artificial and ugly division in people’s 
lives, so that a man, while pursuing heaven with the sublime 
appetite he thought of as his soul, could turn his heart 
against his neighbors and his hands against the world. For 
these reasons, though | know that my questions are religious, : 
| dislike having to say that they are. 
: 
But when | ask them my aim is not primarily to get to 
% 
heaven. Though heaven is certainly more important than 
reat: 
the earth if all they say about it is true, it is still morally: 
agen ane 
incidental to it and dependent on it, and | can only imagine 
midis 
it and desire it in terms of what | know of the earth. And 
so my questions do no aspire beyond the earth. They 
; 
aspire toward it and into it. Perhaps they aspire through 
ie 
it. They are religious because they are asked at the limit 
* 
of what | know; they acknowledge mystery and honor P 
its presence in the creation; they are spoken in reverence 
a 
for the order and grace that | see, and that | trust beyond 
 —— 
my power to see. 
ia 
Wendell Berry’s essays, including “A Native Hill” and 
“The Landscaping of Hell” have been collected in: 
' The Long-Legged House 
4 
isk. 
Wendell Berry 
from: 
= 
1969; 213 pp. 
Harcourt, Brace 
& World, In 
757 Third Avenue 
$5.95 postpaid 
: 
New York, 
N. Y. 10017 
{ 
