The Land and the People 
by Cleofes Vigil 
I've heard it said that more and more longhaired 
youths have gathered large amounts of money with 
the proposition of coming and buying terrain in 
Northern New Mexico. These young people are 
calling themselves ‘‘People of the Earth.” Well 
everyone living is a person of the earth because we 
came from the earth and to the earth we shall 
return. The idea of people of the earth is not a 
new one. 
Well, besides this, there are already groups of these 
very strange young people in Taos County. A very 
poor county in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, a 
county with mountains, hills, canyons, and ravines 
that does not have cultivable terrain. 
For a large 
group of people to live from this land would be 
impossible. Another. point is that lands in North- 
ern New Mexico are places of much rock, hilly, 
and very dry. Not only is there very little water 
but more than half the land is National Forest. 
These lands at one time were land grants belonging 
to the Chicanos, who at this time are fighting the 
Federal Government. 
At this time the land grants are being investigated 
under the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. Lands in 
New Mexico should not nor can they be bought or 
sold, and have no doubt that Chicanos will contin- 
ue to move forward to an increased struggle, with 
the government in the end having to listen to the 
demands of the true people of the earth——Los 
Chicanos. 
| will tell you now of the difference 
between the Anglo-Saxon and the Chicano. 
The Anglo believes in the power of money, and it 
is known that money is the root of evil, and natur- 
ally is the father of individualism. Now, contrarily 
the belief of Chicanos is in living and letting live. 
Ninety per cent of Chicanos are poor and we de- 
sire that people not imitate us, to show us poverty, 
because we already know what it is. We also know 
how to combat poverty and exist because we are 
truly people of the earth, who will survive, pros- 
perous country or not. And now these young 
hippies desire to unite with La Raza. You can be 
sure that there is great mistrust and lack of confi- 
dence. There is no doubt that some Chicanitos 
have joined these confused young people but you 
can be sure that the majority will not. The major- 
ity will not accept these people. 
!t is not that 
Chicanos are better people, but that the Chicano 
culture is better, and never can we accept the 
strange ways of the hippies. There is much dif- 
ference! 
In What?? The Indianized Chicanos are 
truly people who know what it is to respect our 
mother earth and the mountain country. We are 
sons of noble, virtuous, and loving parents. And 
if in our saintly Raza we find corruption it is due 
to the Anglo-Saxon influence and frankly | will tell 
you Anglos, that you have robbed us coming and 
going. 
You are the ones who are corrupt and don’t want 
to do your dirty work alone and so you blame 
those whom you consider inferior. 
In this country, 
which your parents call a democracy, and ruled by 
your parents with lies, robbery, and assault in the 
name of God Almighty——to make it sound better. 
— 
My people know now from where you come and 
as the great brother of my Raza, Jesus the Naza 
rene, taught; ‘You will know the tree by the fruit 
it bears’. | am not the leader of any group but | 
know mi Raza, because all my Raza walks the 
same path and | consider myself a humanitarian. 
1 know and recognize the Creator and because of 
my human concern for others, | desire no insult 
nor injury to anyone. 
But | will suggest to those 
groups who. want to live from the land, like the 
Chicano and his Indian brother have done, that 
they look for land in Texas or Kansas or other 
plains states where it rains more. There they can 
harvest enough for groups of 30, 50 and 100 mem- 
bers and all can eat from the same plate and sleep 
in the same bed as brothers of love as you call 
yourselves. You could also receive better 
advice from your own people, since you people 
do not talk our language. We do speak yours and 
like | said before we know who you are. 
You say that you want to learn from my Raza. 
It 
is known historically that your ancestors did the 
same, but when it came time for hard work, they 
dedicated themselves to writing books about what 
they had learned from us and claimed it as their 
own. Remember that | hate no one and write 
this for your understanding, my desire is peace 
and harmony but this will never be possible until 
the Anglo recognizes who is the creator of creation. 
This is also within you, but if | told you now you 
Be Prepared 
Revolutionary Letter #3 
store water; make a point of filling your bathtub 
at the first news of trouble: they turned off the water 
in the 4th ward for a whole day during the Newark riots; 
or better yet make a habit 
>f keeping the tub clean and full when not in use 
change this once a day, it should be good enough 
for washing, flushing toilets with when necessary 
and cooking, in a pinch, but it’s a good idea 
to keep some bottled water handy too 
get a couple of five gallon jugs and keep them full 
for cooking 
store food—dry stuff like rice and beans stores best 
goes farthest. SALT VERY IMPORTANT: 
it’s health and energy 
healing too. keep a couple pounds 
sea salt around, and, because we're spoiled, some tins 
tuna, etc. to keep up morale—keep up the sense 
of ‘‘balanced diet” ‘’protein intake” remember 
the stores may be closed for quite some time, the trucks 
may not enter your section of the city for weeks, you can cool it 
indefinitely with 
20 |b brown rice 
20 |b whole wheat flour 
10 Ib cornmeal 
10 Ib good beans—kidney or soy 
5 |b sea salt 
2 qts good oil 
When the Enemy Attacks Have These Things Ready 
Everyone should now realize that the cold war sometime is bound to turn into a nuclear war. The Chinese with their terrific 
hatred of us would welcome nuclear war that would destroy all of North America. They must have land for their people and the 
obvious thing for them to do is to destroy North America completely then to colonize it after several years. A group of Russian 
bombers which the Chinese have, could be sent to bomb us any day and before we bothered to tind out who the pilots were we 
would bomb Russia and Russia would bomb us. The starting of a nuclear war would mean absolutely nothing to the Chinese to 
achieve our destruction and they, of course, now have nuclear bombs. 
Have these minimum items ready for your wife and children. You may be able to tough it through, or do not care whether you 
live or not but, you should give your wife and children a chance to survive. These things will mean more to them than all of the 
wealth in the world that you could give them. 
When a bomb strikes all electricity, coal, food, gasoline, medical and clothing supplies are cut off. Gas lines, railroads, high- 
ways, gasoline refineries, water supplies and all transportation will be knocked out. Your money will be absolutely valueless. Food 
in your electric freezer will spoil. Canned food will spoil if frozen. You must live on what you have stored in your home. 
1. A sleeping bag for every one in your family. — 2. One or more wood burning stoves. 
— 3. A 5 gallon plastic water bottle 
for each member in your family. — 4. Minimum of 500 wood matches. — 5. Year’s supply of mosquito and insect repellents. 10 
yards of mosquito netting. — 6. Year's supply of aspirin, iodine, laxatives, bandages. — 7. 1 gallon of canned honey per person. — 
8. Year's supply of dried foods such as beans, peas, flour, corn meal, sugar, cocoa, tea, rice, powdered milk, coffee etc., per person. 
— 9. Two gallons of apple cider vinegar per person. — 10. Year's supply of canned cooking grease. — 11. Year's supply of soap. 
— 12. Year's supply of tobacco. Tobacco is worth much more than anything else when it becomes scarce. — 13. One or more 22 
caliber revolvers and 500 rounds of ammunition for each. 500 rounds of shotgun shells and a shotgun. If possible 100 rifle rounds 
and arifle. — 14. 1 dozen steel traps size 1. 50 yards of soft copper wire for snares. — 15. 100 fish hooks and 200 yards of fish- 
; 
ing line (Fish and animals are usually free of radiation about one month after the last bomb blast.) — 16. A good knife for every- 
one in your family. — 17. Two good axes. Shovel. — 18. A year’s supply of sewing thread, mending 
large metal soup kettle. 1 large frying pan. 2 medium sized cooking pots. 
from Herter’s Catalog, 1970; 656 pp. $1.00 postpaid from: 
Herter’s, Inc., Waseca, Minnesota 56093 
4d 
dried fruit and nuts 
add nutrients and a sense of luxury 
to this diet, a squash or coconut 
in a cool place in your pad will keep six months 
remember we are all used to eating less 
than the ‘‘average American” and take it easy 
before we 
ever notice we're hungry the rest of the folk will be starving 
- used as they are to meat and fresh milk daily 
and help will arrive, until the day no help arrives 
and then you’re on your own. 
hoard matches, we aren't good 
at rubbing sticks together anymore 
a tinder box is useful, if you can work it 
don’t count on gas stove, gas heater 
electric light 
keep hibachi and charcoal, CHARCOAL STARTER a help 
kerosene lamp and candles, learn to keep warm 
with breathing 
remember the blessed American habit of bundling 
Diane Di Prima 
from countdown, a subterranean magazine 95¢ from: Signet 
Books, The New American Library, 1301 Avenue of the Americas, 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
~ 
yarn and needles. — 19. 1 
would never agree, and because of your disagree- Sel 
ment you will never know the Chicano. My people 
— 
are arising today and asking your government for | hed 
justice. We will get justice one way or another. 
Long live my saintly Raza who valiantly fights 
for justice! And to the whole world mi Raza 
: 
’ 
proves that we are carnales 
and the true people ~ 
of the earth. Why? Because we respect the earth — 
as the mother of life and do not exploit her. 
= 
@ 
Ly 
We do not pollute the air and water of our mother 
earth. We are aware of the nourishment our blessed 
mother earth can produce. From earth were we 
formed from the earth do we live. 
wf. 
Now many of you hippies say you are involved ina 
social revolution. Against who? Against your very 
same parents! Well do not make it worse for La 
Raza because we have had more than enough of 
your false praise. 
rs 
Continue on to where there is more space and leave 
us alone in our poor communities. The truth is. 
that we do not desire to unite with you and do not 
add more problems to the heavy ones we already 
: 
have. We don’t care for your progressive methods” ia 
that you have spoken of from time to time. 
iv ; 
Please! 
Leave us alone! 
From: El Grito Del Norte, Feb. 11, 1970. 
. 
Vol. 3, No. 2 
’ 
Sent in by Tom Duckworth. 
[Hey Tom, send us ie: 
Access Information on El Grito del Norte} 
