AAA 
Comments——you seem to have passed up a couple of established 
things that are available to everyone. One is AAA, which I'll 
review for you: 
If you own a car or if you're likely to be driving one much, an 
ABA card is worth its weight in battery charges. For $15—20 
a year you get 1. Free Towing, battery jumps, emergency gas 
delivery. 2. The best up to date maps available for the U.S., 
plus booklets of camping sites, plus help in choosing travel 
routes. 
3. Insurance discounts 4. Bail for misdemeanor 
traffic charges. Our AAA has paid for itself in the first 3 months 
of every year we've had it. 
(AAA offices in every major city) 
Michael Wells 
Portland, Oregon 
P.S. Maybe a pat on the back for Singer Sewing machines? 
Margaret Cherran Suggests 
| have a couple of suggestions which | hope you can use. 
(You 
probably know about this one). You can travel on the Canadian 
Pacific Railroad from Montreal to Vancouver for $51.00 (Canadian 
or $49.00 (American), coach, no meals. (For three days—-—who 
cares). 
| really didn’t believe this so | wrote to the company and 
it was verified. That is so incredibly cheap & what a trip, through 
the Canadian Rockies, etc. Right now some friends are travelling 
this train and |’m dying to hear how it goes. 
Also——there is a company in Dover-Foxcroft, Maine called 
Cushings Perfection Dyes. For 25¢ they will send you a color 
card. They have such incredible colors (no big company can 
match them). Unfortunately most retail stores don’t carry their 
dyes (I’ve only seen them in one store in Prov.) 
But their mail 
service is good. They also sell supplies for batiking and manuals 
on tye dying and batiking. Give the little guys some business. 
Rit’s colors are so bad. 
Visit your public library and start poking around in the old books 
they have——especially in crafts, needlework and old periodicals. 
I'm a freak but I love libraries. Quite a trip. 
Love & Peace— 
Margaret Cherran 
Providence, R.I. 
Rent It 
Dear WHOLE EARTH CATALOG: 
A very important tool that | think should be mentioned are 
rental companies. They will rent ANYTHING, tables, saws, 
trucks, etc. Ask about insurance, transportation clauses, and 
read ALL the fine print. On some large equipment like dump 
trucks, cranes, you may need to hire an operater and also 
trailers are needed for some stuff. The type, kind, and quality 
vary greatly so go easy. Check your Yellow Pages or ask at 
the local hardware store. The companies go under names 
like U-Rent-It, Rent-A-Tool, U-Haul, etc. 
Yours Truly, 
David Smith 
Mendham, N. J. 
Good article on this in Popular Science about 3 or 4 years ago. 
Book Service 
The North American Naturalist Bookstore 
Box 133, Plainfield, Vermont 05667 
“Postal access to readings in the natural sciences, natural 
history, and natural living’. 
A very tasty selection of books, all written around better 
use of and appreciation for our natural earth-home. 
It 
reminds mea 
little of the Whole Earth Catalog. 
Titles 
include Down the Colorado, Freezing & Canning Cookbook, 
The Sea Around Us, the Stalking books——every 
thing from 
ants to ecology. 
Build-a-Boat 
Texas Dory Boat Plans Catalogue, by Capt. Jim Orrell. 
$2.00, | think, from Texas Dory Boat Plans, Box 720, 
Galveston, Texas 77550 
A catalogue with illustrations and line drawings of plans 
for boats 15 to 45 feet, sail, outboard or inboard. Plans 
cost $10 to $15 but by careful drafting you could make 
your own from the line drawings. 
By following one of these plans even you and | can build a 
strong, seaworthy boat of plywood for less than it should 
cost to power it. These designs are mostly modifications 
of the traditional dory workboat. The angular shapes make 
for relatively easy boatbuilding. You need a skill-saw, 
mitre box, a copy of Stewart’s Sma// Boat Construction, 
a whole mess of clamps and a place to do it. | used my 
living room. 
Tom Tarr 
North Vancouver, B.C. 
CANADA 
# Bishop’s Ultimate Tent 
| want to suggest a tent manufacturing company for the Nomadics 
section of the Whole Earth Catalogue. The tent, called “Bishop's 
| 
Ultimate Tent’ was used on the American assault on Mount Everest 
and can be seen in the Sierra Club's book Everest: The West Ridge. 
(see page 93). Barry Bishop, who helped design the tent and is 
responsible for its production, is now in Nepal working on a PhD 
thesis | believe in cultural geography. So the company is being 
run by some friends of theirs, Mr. and Mrs. James Beyersdorfer. 
Their address is 6211 Wedgewood Road Bethesda, Md. Mrs. 
Beyersdorfer handles most of the business out of her basement. 
® Please do get in touch with her for what further information might 
be needed in writing a review. 
Thank you. 
Sincerely, 
Michael Salzberg 
Cabin John, Maryland 
Sweaters Shoes & Gear 
VICTORY SWEATERS, made in England, distributed in U. S; 
through Fulton Supply, Fulton Street, New York City. 
$18.95 (?) 
These sweaters are made of wool with the oil left in——are very good 
for sailing, crusing through rain forests, or just plain potting about 
in. Those who have them live in them. 
Like a sweatshirt (with high, 
rolled collar), but for colder weather. 
Fulton supply, which puts out 
a free catalog, outfits both commercial fishermen and sailing people. 
Good place. 
s 
“TOPSIDERS,” which are sailing shoes (leather & nylon & canvas), 
boots; both with special tread. Supplied by Sperry, somewhere in 
= Conn. 
(Streeter & Quarles West in San Francisco carries the brand, 
and can tell you the home base) Various prices. 
These shoes seem to cost twice as much as those put out by the 
competition struggling to break Topsiders’ corner on the market. 
For example 11.95 for the canvas, 12.95 for the nylon sneakers. 
Don’t know how successful the competition has been, Topsiders 
= seem to be the universal sailing shoe. Have used them, they work. 
FOUL (OR WET) WEATHER GEAR, made by Helly Hansen of 
Norway, distributed in U. S. by Canor Plarex, Inc. 
1) 4200 23rd Ave W. 
Seattle, Wash 98199 
36 Bellewood Ave. 
Dobbs Ferry, N. Y. 10522 
41 Alexander Street 
Vancouver, B.C., CANADA 
2 
3) 
This seems to be the best gear around. Used by many deep water 
sailors. Have seen it (felt it? touched it? etc.) and it works. Very 
good stuff. 
C. Pitt 
Urbana, Il. 61801 
Land Again 
About the item in your Spring ‘69 issue about acquiring tax 
delinquent property; it will work, | believe, as set forth, but the 
title could end up being a ‘‘shakey’’ one, and there is always the 
chance you will just end up paying someone else's taxes and 
improving his property gratis. 
Better deal and more straightforward, is to locate several tax delin- 
quent properties, contact the owner or heirs and offer to buy ata 
low figure. 
Also, in California, tax delinquent property is deeded to the state 
after a few years (5, | believe) and then sold off yearly at a tax 
sale auction. 
Anyone acquiring property in the above fashions (and intending to 
keep it) should learn something about “‘searching the title.” Other- 
wise you might, for example, end up with land with a huge public 
utility easement over it, or subject to a sewer assessment more 
expensive than the value of the property. 
companies will sometimes ‘‘search the title’ and issue a non-guaran- 
teed ‘preliminary report’ at low cost, anticipating that they will 
tater insure the title. Title companies are also sometimes a source 
of free plat maps and other information. 
Some factors to be considered when doing the land thing: govern- 
ment assessments (taxes & improvement districts) easements, rights 
of way, zoning, liens, ‘‘chain of title’ and covenants, conditions 
and restrictions. 
or hall of records. Friendly real estate brokers can also be a big 
help., 
A lot can be learned by phone. 
Alex Gough 
Atascadero, CA 
Title search fees by title insurance firms are often reasonable. These = 
Researching can be done at various offices at the county court house 
& 
: Grab Bag 
SURVIVAL EQUIPMENT 
Yerger’s Supplies, Box 8138, Anchorage, Alaska 99504. Catalog 
* contains Air Force Survival Equipment selections for light aircraft. 
© Survival Equipment Company, Division of Victor Tool Company, 
Oley, Pennsylvania 19547. Survival equipment for aircraft owners | 
and pilots. 
Kits, tools, & books. Everything from a one-man life 
raft model PK—2 at $123.00 to an orange smoke bomb for $2.25. 
In sixteen pages this is a very complete survival equipment company. 
Many kits are useful for any wilderness traveler on foot or horse- 
® back, or river float trip. 
: 
Northwest Wilderness Survival Schools, Life Support Technology, Inc., 
4530 SE Roswell Street, Portland, Oregon 97206. Summer Sessions 
* $60.00. One week. They also have survival kits for snowmobiles 
along with a film on winter survival available for rent. 
Survival Research Laboratories, 17 Marland Road, Colorado Springs, 
Colorado 80906. 
£ A. Individual one man three day survival kit designed for the average 
Cross Country flight. 
$37.85 
B. “Trail Kit’ for the shirt pocket 
3.85 
C. Special information about Alaska and Canada 
GEAR 
Ocate Corporation, Recreational Equipment, Subsidiary of Aztec 
Industries, Inc., Post Office Box 2368, Santa Fe, New Mexico 87501. 
The Ocate Venture Polyfoam Sleeping Bag, from $24.00 to $42.00, 
= blue or gold. The bag is comfortable down to a range of 0 to 15 
degrees. Ripstop nylon cover foam core and nylon liner. Non- 
allergenic. Great for river trips since even when wet the bag act: 
like a wet suit keeping some body heat. 
Polyfoam mukluks great for snowmobiling, ice fishing, and snow 
— 
shoe trips. Children’s 12.45, extra large $16.95 and $14.95 for all 
. 
sizes in between. Send your shoe size. 
; 
Also polyfoam sno-mitts and mittens for $7.95. Send dress glove 
size. 
Camp Trails, P.O.B. 13400 or 3920 W. Clarendon Ave., Phoenix, 
Arizona 85031. High quality camp gear. Example: 
The Fanny Pak No. 404. Designed especially for those who want to” 
keep their shoulders free for extra ease in movement. 
Hunters, 
skiers, photographers, etc. Wear in back, in front or on the side. 
1%" wide nylon belt with quick release buckle, double zipper, 
: 
inside elastic pocket tailored for contour fit, snag proof, water- 
Bl 
proof nylon. 16’ x 7%" x 4” weight 5% oz. color, orange or green. 
F 
$7.25 retail. 
Started making the tubular aluminum pack frame twenty-three 
years ago! Now making the magnesium frame. 
The Conestoga Wagon of Today. Compact Bus Owners can build 
their own units for camping. Dot Campers, P.O.B. 2115, Culver, 
— 
® California 90230. Each plan set includes step by step instructions, 
bill of materials, and photos. Plans available for Volkswagon, Ford: 
<5 
Econoliner, Dodge A-100, Chevy Van, and GMC Handivan 
$2.95 each. — 
Seeing Eye Headlight. Three inch wide reflector throws a bright 
beam 500 feet. Battery in belt pouch. Seeing Eye Headlight, $6.35 
postpaid. Modern Living Products, 409 City Hall Building, Rockford, 
Illinois 61104 
San 
A car safety shoulder harness that works and is easy to use. 
Inertia 
Reel/Safety Harness. American Seating Company, 901 Broadway 
Avenue NW, Grand Rapids, Michigan 49502. Available from the 
manufacturer for $38 postpaid. 
a 
¢ ad 
i 
Lan 
Shoulder harnesses save lives and prevent serious injury in the 
vicinity of 80% and yet few people use them. 
American car manufacturers make the harness hard to use. Not so 
with the Inertia Reel/Safety Harness. It’s easy to use. Just sit down 
normally and pull the straps over your shoulders just like suspenders. 
As with all harnesses this one must be used in conjunction with 
conventional lap belts. 
MODEL ROCKET PRODUCTS 
Vashon Industries, Inc. Box 309, Vashon, Washington 98070. 
Vashon rockets are liquid fueled. Altitudes of 1,000 ft. 
Electronically fired with parachute recovery. Catalog 25¢ 
Rocket Supply, River Edge, New Jersey 07661. Catalog 25¢ 
The Rocket Handbook 
for Amateurs, (Lt. Col.) Charles M. Parkins, 
Editor. An illustrated guide to the safe construction, testing and 
launching of model rockets, John Day Publishing Company. 
[Lots more on rockets on page 40] 
FOR THE SKY DIVER 
United States Parachute Association, P.O.B. 109, Monterey, 
California 93940. $10 annual membership dues. Applicant need 
© 
not have made a parachute jump. 
+ 
ae 
~‘ 
Benefits include: monthly magazine, The Parachutist, liability 
— 
insurance, government representation, shoulder insignia, decal, 
eligibility for USPA sanctioned competitions, subscription to 
— 
National Parachuting Directory, discounts on National Aeronautic 
Association membership, guidance in all parachute activities. 
. . 
eligibility for membership in USPA affiliated clubs and eligibility 
for parachuting licenses. 
i 
, 
~. 
Earl Palmer 
Corvallis, Oregon 
Cable Winch 
Re-reading your section on Roadside Camping; people who drive 
their rigs on woods roads, donkey trails, and such should have a 
lever-operated cable winch (ca. 2 ton cap.) to pull them out when 
stuck. They cost from $30-60, depending on length of lift. They 
are better than winches powered by your rig because they'll pull 
— 
you out backwards or sideways as well as by the front. 
a 
With a winch with 20’ of lift, you don’t need 4-wheel drive; and 
even with 4-wheel, you should have the winch in case of getting 
» 
high-centered, as they say. 
= A winch really takes the terror out of getting stuck, and lots of if . 
the work. 
; 
Getting unstuck is a traditional craft; perhaps other cat. users know had 
about other stuff on this score. 
J 
Best, 
Jimmie Silverthorne 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
“03 
