All you farmers-to-be 
Penn State /s Number One, at least in correspondence courses 
that have relevance to agriculture. Cornell University recom- 
ae 
mended them to me and am | glad. All the courses have 
“x 
: 
pages of written material followed by a “test’’ that is “graded” § 
by someone in State College (if you desire) and returned. 
Naturally, with so many courses, the quality is varied. I’ve 
read maybe two dozen of them. They are extreme valuable 
in areas where the reader has absolutely no knowledge. The 
Penn State introduction obtained with no small degree of 
authority enables one to more intelligently choose more 
advanced material (which is not always necessary) without 
waste of too much time and money in shotgun searches 
through libraries and/or bookstores. 
| recommend partic- 
ularly their survey on Poultry Keeping. 
Be well. 
John E. Schultz 
Mileses, New York 
Catalog 
FREE from: 
Correspondence Courses 
The Pennsylvania State University 
202 Agricultural Education Building 
University Park, PA 16802 
97. FARM MANAGEMENT. This course covers the field of farm 
management in general terms. 
It is useful to the nonfarmer who 
wants to improve his understanding of the business of farming; to 
the beginning farmer as an outline of knowledge he should have and 
as an efficient approach to farm management; to the farmer as a 
review and summary. 
8 Lessons, 10 Study Points 
103. POTATO GROWING. Eight lessons provide information on 
factors concerned with potato production. History and importance 
of the potato on a worldwide basis are explained. The present-day 
varieties to use are described, as well as the various steps in growing 
and marketing the crop. The uses and food value of the tubers are 
discussed and also how to store and care for seed and eating tubers. 
8 Lessons, 11 Study Points 
105. DAIRY GOATS. These lessons treat the origin, characteristics, 
and adaptation of the breeds of milk goats. Breeding and feeding are 
fully covered, and special attention is given to care and management. 
Excellent illustrations of equipment and housing are enclosed. 
8 kessons, 10 Study Points 
How to Identify Plants 
| would like to suggest How to /dentify Plants by H. D. 
Harrington. Swallow Press, Chicago, 1957. $2.25 (paper- 
back) for the catalog. 
I’ve just discovered it——with glee 
for it seems to offer a do-it-yourself way into the tech- 
nicalities of plant identification. 
It offersaconcise 
_ 
explanation of how plants are classified, reasoning behind 
terminology, definition of important terms (several 
chapters of this) with drawings, guide to using keys in 
identification, the techniques & equipment of collecting 
and pressing, lists manuals for specific areas & includes 
an illustrated glossary. 
Janet Inada 
H 
Ashland, Ore. 
ss 
Indoor Greenery 
35 
For those who are still in the city but are attempting an indoor 
green revolution to freshen air, eyes and soul, may | suggest the 
following sources of info., plants and materials: 
The really best book on “‘how to” is Ernesta Drinker Ballard’s 
A Garden in Your House, Harper & Row. An excellent & unusual 
feature of this book is that it contains lists of plants especially 
suited to specific indoor environments. 
Indoor plants by mail: 
Logee’s Greenhouses, Danielson, Conn. 
Catalog $.50. 39 p of Begonias, 9 of geraniums, lots of herbs. 
Merry Gardens, Camden Maine 04843 
Handbook & price list $.50. Gives cultural requirements for each 
Seeds 
| have had pretty good Juck with the Gurney Seed & 
Nursery Co people. As you see the photographs and 
reproductions aren’t as good as Park’s. Their service 
and quality of product has been good. 
Sincerely, 
Edward Pfiester 
Austin, Texas 
Gurney Seed & Nursery Co., Inc. 
Yankton, S. D. 57078 
Flowers, vegetables, trees 
More Seeds 
KITAZAWA SEED CO. 
A 356 W. Taylor St. 
San Jose, Calif. 95110 
Pkt. . Lb. 
CHINESE CABBAGE 
Aichi Hakusai. Plant in July-Aug. 
Has 10-12 Ib. head 
50 
5.00 
Nozaki No. 4. Spring sowing, slow 
bolting 
1.00 
8.00 
EDIBLE BURDOCK (Gobo) Japanese 
specialty resembling Scorzonera in 
shape. Roots long & slender are 
washed, scraped, scalded and boiled 
until tender & tasty. Seed used 
for its medicinal properties also 
-50 
MUSTARD SPINACH (Komatsuna) 
Quick growing tender dark green 
glossy leaves used in salads having 
a flavor of mustard & spinach 
.50 
JAPANESE ONION, Nebuka Trans- 
planted plants with earthed up 
stalks grow thick with pure white 
blanched stems 
.50 
5.00 
(Suggested by R. Ruiz, 
Santa Cruz, CA] 
David Pace 
One of the largest, for-real suppliers of organic fertilizers, 
soil conditioners, & natural insect controls. 
They probably 
have everything you'll ever need, and then some, to grow 
your own good food. Their catalog is free from David 
Pace, 924 Olmstead St., San Francisco, CA 94134 
BLOOD MEAL is most popular as excellent source of organic 
Nitrogen, the growth promoter (over 12%). It goes to work 
more quickly than most organic materials, will not burn plants. 
COTTONSEED MEAL contains all three major plant nutrients; 
Nitrogen, Phosphorous and Potash. 
KELP MEAL is unsurpassed as a soil conditioner and a source of 
every important trace element. Kelp has been used almost as 
long as man has existed, stimulates growth of plants in such a way 
that improvement is made in the quality of the produce. Kelp 
aids plants in the uptake of necessary nutrients. Only a very small 
amount is needed. 
Working With Glass 
There aren‘t many books on working with glass. W.E.C. 
Woman’s Day Co-op 
| have a few things | would like to suggest. 
1) WOMAN'S DAY MAGAZINE. Obviously, every issue of 
this supermarket magazine isn’t great but if you keep an eye 
on it they occasionally give you really good information on how 
to make things. In contrast to say Family Circle and McCalls, 
which are really plastic and surburban, Woman’s Day will give 
you instructions and patterns for things like patchwork quilts. 
| think they once even had instructions for making the 
““molas’’ made by the San Blas Indians. 
In other words, their 
craft department is really good. 
; 
2) Co-op Low Cost Cook Book: 
(That's the Berkeley Co-op) 
| am always trying out new recipies, especially in the low-cost 
s 
° field. This little book is the best I've ever found. Everything 
tastes good, is easy, nutritious and cheap. 
: 
Serena Embree 
Sebastopol, CA 
i Spinning Wheels 
? about $45 
from Made-Well Manufac. 
Sifton, Manitoba, Canada 
“ 
= The wheel is the ‘‘box or chair’ type. This wheel is only 
sold complete. Postage & duty on mine came to about $12. 
33 (This would be true of Indian wheel too) But the total is 
# less than the Indian wheel by quite a bit. Mine works fine. 
:3 This firm also sells a great carding machine that saves hours. 
: if one is starting with a raw fleece. This is $43, shipping & — 
} 
= duty about $5. 
F 
Brucie Adams 
Laramie, Wyo. 
Violet Jelly! 
a 
A really nice way to preserve a bit of spring for the whole year is to 
make violet jelly. Here’s my recipe: 
; 
2 cups of freshly picked violets (flowers only) 
1 cup boiling water 
juice of one lemon 
Y% cup, or thereabouts, of sugar 
pectin 
Put the violets and boiling water in a blender and blend till the 
= 
flowers disappear. 
It'll be greenish-black and look terrible. 
$3 
Pour into a heavy saucepan and boil——a greenish scum will form 
Ra 
th 
_ 
82 
which must be skimmed off. When there is no more scum, add 
— 
ec 
= 
sugar to the boiling mixture and stir with wooden spoon. Add 
ey! 
£3 
lemon juice (this makes the mixture turn a beautiful purple). 
Add the pectin (about 1/3 the pkg) and boil for about 3 minutes 
more. Pour into sterile jars and seal. 
' 
Let sit for about a day without disturbance. The jelly will never 
Pe a 
be solid but rather like soft jello. 
: 
Red clover flowers can be substituted for violets, and | think 
phlox flowers might also work. Two people can pick about a 
gallon of flowers in about an hour. (2 cups of flowers make a 
little less than one pint of jelly) 
2 
" 
plant or plant type. Offers a wide variety of plants——and specially 
wide variety of fuschia, begonias, scented geraniums and herbs. 
They also sell herb seeds. 
Julius Roehrs Co., Rutherford, N.J. 07070 
Exotic Plant Collectors list $.25 
These are really groovy & unusual plants from one of the largest 
greenhouse complexes in the US. 
It’s worth a visit if you're any- 
where near NYC——N4J side of Lincoln Tu nnel on Patterson Ave., 
This is the only source of ‘‘specimen size” plants by mail | know 
of. Most deal in plants in 2’'-3’' pots which are easiest to ship—— 
and relatively inexpensive to acquire. 
lists only one and that is mostly about glass blowing. May — = 
| recommend: “The Encyclopedia of Working With Glass’’, 
Milton K. Berlye, 1968. Oceana Publications, Inc. Dobbs 
Ferry, N. Y. $12.50. 
It covers the entire subject very well, 
including fiberglass. 
A. W., Griffin 
Van Nuys, CA 
Materials 
& 
supplies——particularly 
for 
growing 
things 
under lights 
Marcine Brandstein 
House Porccune: 
iain 
iio 
iia 
¢ 
- 
Lenox, Massachusetts 
PO Box 810 
Oxford, Maryland 21654 
Catalog $.20 the 1st time. 
Alaskan Camp Book 
The Alaskan Camp Cook 
$2.00 
Peace & Strength 
Alaskan Sportsman Magazine, Box 1271, Juneau, Alaska 
Libby J. Goldstein 
Philadelphia, PA 
This is a collection of recipes for preparing game including 
moose, beaver, mountain sheep, etc; for preparing fish, 
shellfish & for gathering & cooking wild fruits, berries & 
vegetables. There is also a section on sourdough cookery. 
Apparently the Home Economics Dept. of the U of Alaska 
is also a good source of wilderness cooking advice. 
Peace & Love, 
Lee Miller 
Seattle, Wash. 
