oe 
_ of all things, seems to be the first to have taken navigation 
4 Underground Stable 
WN 
N 
© 
avigation 
imer of Navigation, by George Mixter. $12.50 from 
‘an Nostrand-Reinhold, 450 W..33rd St., NY, NY 10001 
he clearest, best written, most concise treatise | know of 
_is this one. Mixter, who was the president of Pierce-Arrow, 
_ from the area of an occult art——scattered and hidden in 
separate, virtually unreadable tomes, accessible only to the 
~ obviously small numbers of initiates. 
C. Pitt 
Urbana, Illinois 
HELPFUL HINTS FOR HOMESTEADERS 
% —Buckskin Jake— 
- Underground Stable——When | was young | remember being in 
some stables under the barn and they were very warm. Also, | 
~ remember reading about a man who lived in Dakota territory in 
_ the early days. He worked on ranches in summer and helped cut 
and stack wild hay; in winter he trapped in the Black Hills. He 
said it only took half as much to feed a horse in an underground 
stable as it did to feed one in a stable on top of the ground. 
To make the stable, dig out a hole on the east or south side of a 
hill so it will get the winter sun. 
It should be about 4 feet deep 
at the deep end. Make it big enough to build your log barn in the 
hole. After you get the barn done, fill the dirt back in the hole 
against the logs up to the ground level——one side will have dirt 
against it to a height of 4 ft., at the two ends the dirt will slant 
back to nothing, and the southerly side will be free of dirt. Here 
is where you make the door and window. 
- 
_ Snow, when it gets deep around a building, helps to keep out the 
wind, but sometimes we have a lot of cold and wind before the 
snow gets deep. Be sure the barn is protected from the northwest 
~ wind so it won't drift under. 
| have seen snow 15 ft. deep on the 
east side of hills. 
If you have goats or sheep, let the bedding get a foot or more 
thick in their pen. This will start to heat and make the barn warm 
in case you have any young born in winter. Also, an underground 
Be 
stable is a good place to winter a pig if you keep one. A cow ora 
: 
donkey has well insulated hair to keep him warm, but a pig has to 
i depend on a layer of fat, and it takes a lot more feed to keep that 
fat on him in acold barn. 
, 
a Make the barn high enough so you will have 3 or 4 feet of space 
over the stable to fill with hay and you will have a snug stable. 
After a few years the dirt against the logs will rot them (tho they 
will last much longer if built of cedar or other rot resistant wood; 
Hello 
_ lists products on/y if the pharmaceutical companies pay to 
a as high as the dirt comes and finish with logs the rest of the way. 
_ This should last as long as you want a stable. 
a 
painted with wood preservative before the dirt is put against them; 
or covered with black plastic sheeting where the dirt is to be placed), 
but in the meantime you can make a stable with a stone wall laid up 
Backwoods Journal 
- But Will They Sell it to Us? 
| noticed a suggestion recommending the Physician’s Desk 
Reference for information about drugs. A drawback: P.D.R. 
have their drugs included. The result: paid advertising. 
_ A finer tool——Facts and Comparisons, edited by Erwin K. 
_ Kastrup and Gene H. Schwach. For each drug it supplies 
composition, manufacturer, purpose, how-its-used, pre- 
cautions, adverse reactions, how-it’s-supplied, relation- 
ship to other products (similarities, differences), and 
“cost index’. 
Drugs arranged in large groups by use. 
_ Another good thing: F&C is updated monthly. New 
__ 
pages in the mail (including alphabetical index supplement.) 
_ A boon to all anal retentives the thing is a ring notebook. 
Click click they even punch the holes for you and tell you 
(straightfacedly?) to replace old page 15 with new page 15: 
In 1967 it cost $11.00 per year. But you never know. Ask 
Be 
Facts and Comparisons, Inc. 
: 
333 Chambers Road 
St. Louis, Missouri 63137 
Caren Quay 
+, (ees 
Dear Whole Earth People: 
_ Joe Bonner asks about good books on firing clay— 
The best are 3 by Dan Rhodes: 
1. Clay & Glazes for the Potter 
_——-2. Stoneware & Porcelain 
3. Kilns 
al published by Chilton Pub. Co, 401 Walnut St., Philadelphia, 
Pa, 19106. Each about $7.50. 
ms especially is terrific, as it is the only reaity comprehensive 
ok on the subject, full of illustrations, info on where to buy 
‘materials, and the quality of those materials. 
ae 
Deborah Shapiro 
Pomona, N. Y. 
rge E. Thompson seconds these and adds Ceramics: Potters 
dbook, by Glenn Nelson. $6.95 paper from Holt, Rinehart 
ston, 383 Madison “venue, New York, N. Y. 10017 
Meditation 
1 can no longer resist my long-standing intention to reccomend 
transcendental meditation to The Whole Earth Catalogue.. Available 
throughout the world from S.!.M.S., S.R.M., and |.M.S. centers, 
the technique is easy to practice and can be learned by anyone. 
Using the natural tendency of the mind to experience increasingly 
subtle states of perception in two brief daily meditations, the 
technique effectively cultivates all areas dealt with by various 
methods of yoga and meditation. Anyone interested in system- 
atically raising his level of consciousness and thereby realizing his 
full potential in all aspects of life should experience it: 
if you 
want to meditate, this is how. Information and addresses of 
local centers are available from S.1.M.S., 1015 Gayley Avenue, 
Los Angeles, California. 
| have recently seen a draft of a scientific paper, ‘‘physiological 
effects of transcendental meditation,” by Keith Wallace. 
Based on extensive research, the paper is to appear in Science 
Magazine in the next month or so. 
It gives evidence that even 
beginning meditators experience deeper metabolic rest in 
meditation than in any other state, including deep sleep. This 
and resulting benefits must be experienced to be appreciated. 
| should also mention that Raui Kumar is publishing two sequels 
to Tantra Art, both also by Mukerjee, both, he claims, greatly 
superior to the original. The first; Tantra Asana will be out 
soon. 
Sincerely, 
Michael Cain 
Rishikesh, India 
Transits & Levels 
A free booklet entitled ‘‘How to Use Transits and Levels for faster, 
more accurate building’ is prepared by C. L. Berger & Sons, Inc. 
of Boston and can be obtained from Catalog Service, P.O. Box 
1656, Dept. 88, Richmond, Va. 23213. One is to ask for the 
above named booklet. My first concern was whether it would be 
written in language for the non-technical reader and | was pleased 
to find it prepared in an elementary method with few assumptions 
taken concerning the reader. 
101 uses for a transit and level are given and a select few are 
exemplified. 
It illustrates the method of squaring foundations 
and establishing straight lines for numerous uses. Straight crop 
rows are laid out with a transit which doesn’t sound like a necessity 
but it can be helpful to the mule pulling the plow. 
Wayne Wooten 
Wilbar, N.C. 
Handy Medical Guide for Seafarers 
_ Is now in paperback. It was $3.85; is now $2.40 
from: 
Fishing News (Books) Ltd. 
110 Fleet Street 
London E.C. 4 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Make Your Own Space Blanket 
MATERIALS 
1) Aluminum Foil, preferably quilted “Super’’ type; 
any convenient width 
2) Mystik Tape or equivalent 
3) 3—10 mil clear plastic or better 
Clear on one side, black on the other 
DIRECTIONS 
“Tack-tape’”’ foil together then tape on outside of sandwich 
& stitch down outside 
Some uses for this thing 
1. lf like me you're used to sleeping on the hard ground it 
takes the place of an ensolite pad & air mattress (which 
is never worth the bother) or wrap it around you like a 
Christmas turkey (leave enough space on top for the bag 
to breathe) 
' a] ’ . 
— STITCHING —3i 
ecee 
oe twene 
eee 
eee 
. 
e 
‘ 
7 
’ 
iJ 
i 
‘ 
' 
' 
,. 
amee. 
wree 
ce 
[yo 
++ 
see 
mens 
FOIL 
ee 
Another VW Book 
You have in:your catalogue two very good books on VWs. 
How to. Keep Your VW Alive is good for technique while 
Elfrink’s Technical Manual supplies sometimes very helpful 
extra information. However if you happen to own a 1965 
Sedan (like | do) or a later model you will find that the 
Technical Manual is confusing and not complete. The 
“latest edition of this book was published in 1965. 
| have a better one. 
It is called The Volkswagen Owners 
Handbook of Maintenance and Repair, published by Floyd 
Clymer. This is a very thorough book with up-to-date and 
easy to understand (and to locate) exploded diagrams, and 
pictures. 
| recommend it highly to anyone that owns a "65 
Sedan or later as it has sections for ‘65's, 1300’s, 67's, ‘68's, 
and ‘69's. 
Clymer publishes other books on VWs including one on 
1600s, Transporters, Souping Up a VW, How to Drive and 
Road Test a VW, and even an old reprint of one of the 
first VW instruction books. Clymer also publishes books 
on many other foreign makes (Porsche, Datsun, Volvo). 
Best Regards, 
Steve Keleher 
Van Nuys, CA 
Volkswagen Owners Handbook of Maintenance and Repair 
$3.00 from Floyd Clymer, 222 No. Virgil Avenue, Los 
Angeles, CA 90004 
Volks-Rack 
This Volks—Rack is what it says! 
It makes life a lot easier 
for us “bug” owners. 
William G. Williams, Jr. 
Lincoln, Massachusetts 
R.A. Allen Co. Box 115, Lincoln, Mass. 01773 
$15.95 Postage Paid 
Anywhere U.S.A. 
Mass. Residents add 3% sales tax 
2. It’s a good thing to carry as a survival item to wrap 
yourself in if you’re stuck out someplace 
Black on one side it becomes: 
a good way to absorb & 
maintain the sun‘s heat 
It's big enough for its weight that in a stiff breeze bend a 
coupla corners, get some mesquite branches or some Cat- 
tails & you have a radar reflecting kite 
In the desert it will keep you from being roasted. 
| haven’t checked it out yet but it seems that with some 
simple modifications it will also serve as a passable solar 
still. 
Something like this is sold as a ‘‘space” sportsman’s 
! blanket in Mountain Sh: 
ut it costs $8 & isn’t as 
versatile. This should cost less than $2 complete. Also 
you can make really compact survival clothing items, 
cheap the same way 
Rev. Israel Farquahar 
BLANKET 
%2" 
©) 
GROMMET 
T FLAP 
mii rots 
DETAIL 
2" Mystic or any non hydroscopic strong tape 
——Movie or ‘‘Gaffer” tape or Duct Tape. Don’t 
use Plastic Electricians tape, it gets greasy & 
funky & won't hold 
