PART ONE 
by Gene Youngblood 
A concrete scientific alternative to politics now exists. For 
the first time in history it is now possible for society to 
shape its destiny completely outside the realm of political 
activity as we know it. Even the remotest possibility of a 
true alternative to politics should be sufficient motivation 
for each man to discover for himself whether or not it 
exists. But Buckminster Fuller’s World Game is far beyond 
the planning stage. 
It is presently under way at Southern 
Illinois University, where a $16 million computer complex 
‘is being constructed to serve as World Game headquarters. 
There, at the site of Fuller’s World Resources Inventory, a 
football field sized map of the world will be stretched out 
horizontally in the center of a huge arena some 600 feet 
long and 400 feet wide. From two levels of balconies 
approximately eight to ten floors above the map, viewers 
will be able to see the entire earth’s surface simultaneously 
without any visible distortion of the relative size and shape 
of the land and sea masses. This huge cartographic Dymaxion 
projection of the earth will display the continents arrayed 
as one world-island in one world-ocean with no breaks in 
the continental contours. 
The great map will be wired to serve as a giant visual display 
surface for information from a battery of high-velocity 
digital computers with megabit capacities approaching four 
million bits each. The computers will be located beneath 
the map in subterranean chambers, or in special structures 
adjacent to the display arena. The map’s surface will be 
activated by the computers to show proportional data 
regarding the planet’s raw and organized resources, world 
conditions and events, together with the history and 
trending patterns of world people’s movements and needs. 
Remote viewing and operating consoles will be situated 
throughout the double balconies for personal interaction 
with the computers and their visual displays. 
While the Illinois complex will serve as the central brain, 
World Game extension groups are being established at 
universities, colleges and centers all around the world. 
They'll be equipped with remote-control viewing and input/ | 
+ output subsystems linked with the central World Game 
Inventory. 
(I‘ll be conducting one such group next year 
as a faculty member of the California Institute of the Arts.) 
With this network of ultra-sophisticated technology, a 
giant world logistics game will be played by individuals or 
groups all around the world, using a series of computer 
programs based on principles of Game Theory, General 
Systems Theory, input/output theory, etc. Called ‘’The 
World Game,” it is basically a reversal of Dr. John Von 
Neuman’s widely-used Game Theory of military strategy, 
such as practiced in the computerized brain trusts of the 
Rand Corporation and the Pentagon. 
Militarists attempt to pre-experience the probabilities and 
consequences of world war by using Von Neuman’s Game 
Theory in terms of optimum logistics and ballistics 
presently available. Game Theory is always played on 
the axiomatic assumption. that it’s either ‘‘them” or us, 
that there’s not enough world resources to support humanity, 
and therefore only the fittest survive, armageddon is inevit- 
able. (This is the only reason sovereign nation-states exist 
in the first place.) According to Game Theory, someone 
must lose. The name of the game is Divide and Conquer. 
According to World Game, no one loses. The name of this 
game is United We Stand. The World Game is mankind’s 
first historical attempt to solve whole-earth problems, not 
just local ones (because no problem is exclusively local), and 
on a scale previously available only for war gaming. The 
object of the World Game is to make the world work suc- 
cessfully for all human beings. ‘The objective,” Fuller 
explains, “is to explore for ways to make it possible for 
anybody and everybody in the human family to enjoy the 
total earth without any human interfering with any human 
and without any human gaining advantage at the expense of 
another. The programs that the computers will select as 
being most favorable for all humanity will go far beyond 
man’s ignorant ways of assessing what he ‘can afford.’ The 
computers will demonstrate that he can afford nothing 
short of the best, which is to make spaceship earth a 
successful environment for man. 
If anyone playing the 
game employs ideological biases and attempts to enforce 
the dominance of one by another, that player will be 
disqualified. The game must be won by peaceful! means, 
by the use of intelligence and proper use of our resources. 
The players will not compete. They will engage in cooper- 
ative exploration to see how all humanity can win a suc- 
cessful, pollution free life.’’ 
Fuller asserts, after fifty years of study, that science has 
proven this possible. He asserts also that world history 
during these seventy years of the 20th 
century has proven that mankind increas- 
: 
ingly accomplished more with less, thus 
nullifying the universally-accepted Malthusian dictum that 
there’s not enough to go around, that we must survive by 
a system of economics of scarcity. Fuller points to the fact 
that humanity has progressed from one per cent living in 
appreciable health and comfort in 1900 to forty-four per 
cent currently living at a higher standard than ever before 
——while at the same time the earth’s physical resources 
have been steadily decreasing. Since this was not the objec- 
tive of any nation, it is obviously the result of science and 
industry doing ever more with ever less. 
For fifty years Fuller has been compiling an inventory of 
world resources, both physical and metaphysical. 
For the 
past two decades he’s had a large staff and computer facilities, 
and the World Resources Inventory has become the world’s 
most comprehensive collection of information about the 
status of planet earth. (A partial cross-section of this infor- 
mation is available in the six-volume set of “World Design 
Science Documents,” published at Southern IIlinois Uni- 
versity.) 
It includes all the known amounts and locations of 
the physical resources of earth, their rates of consumption 
and regeneration, as well as all the metaphysical resources 
as represented by mankind's ideas, concepts and theories 
throughout history. 
It contains trends, known human needs, 
fundamental behavior characteristics as determined psycho- 
logically, anthropologically, ecologically and sociologically. 
It includes trends in population-growth, population migration, 
birth and death rates globally, all political events, trends 
_ 
and consequences, all socio-economic developments around 
the whole earth. 
In addition, the World Game now has access to all infor- 
mation from NASA’s meteorological planet analysis and 
earth resources satellites. Equipped with special high- 
resolution 5000-scanline TV cameras in relatively low 
orbits, the satellites yield pictures equivalent to 100 feet 
above ground. (Higher resolution is possible but some 
countries complain of “invasion of privacy.”’) Sensors 
aboard the satellites are able to pick up unique electro- 
magnetic and thermodynamic frequencies, and thus can 
recognize the specific temperature of different types of 
woods, flesh, furs, metals, etc. The satellites have been 
identifying, locating and counting the number of beef 
cattle grazing around the earth. Other sensors have been 
able to tell exactly what and where the living grain crop 
is. For the first time in history, world man can learn 
exactly where both his shifting and fixed resources 
are, and in the digital computer he has a brain capable 
of storing and retrieving this information on a scale 
impossible for all of humanity to match. 
Not only does the World Resources Inventory show where 
all the people on earth are located and how they’re moving 
about, but the total weather pattern as well. The total 
weather pattern will be correlated with the total crop 
pattern. We will know where the rains are, where the 
cattle and crops are, and how the weather may eventually 
be guided to insure the crops. The inventory includes 
world food production per year in metric tons, locally, 
nationally and globally. It shows the entire coal and 
iron resources of the earth and their rates of consumption. 
(A typical finding of the World Game is that there’s 
more tin above ground in the United States than there 
is underground in the rest of the world.) You can learn 
the total tonnage of fibers produced per year, globally or 
locally, broken down into kinds of fibers. ‘The inventory 
shows how many persons in Africa and Asia own radios, 
television sets and appliances. Trends show total energy 
consumption, electrical and ahh around the whole 
globe. 
Armed with this arsenal of constantly-updated information 
about the world’s wealth, dedicated revolutionaries around 
the globe will set out to render politics obsolete as they 
disclose methods to make the whole earth successful by 
playing the World Game. Humans everywhere, from 
students to scientists——disenchanted with politics yet 
finding no solution in violent revolution——will discover 
a direct and constructive mode of activism in the World 
Game. Global information is the natural enemy of local 
government, for it reveals the true context in which that 
government is operating. Global television is directly 
responsible for the political turmoil which is increasing 
around the world today. The Nixon administration senses 
this and is beginning to react, but it’s too late. Television 
makes it impossible for governments to maintain the 
illusion of sovereignty and separation which are essential 
for their existence. Television is one of the most revolution- 
ary tools in the entire spectrum of technoanarchy. World 
Game players will make dramatic use of television all 
around the earth. 
The Game will proceed in the following manner: with the 
hardware and software described above, coded displays of 
world problems will be viewed singly or in relation to one 
another, and will permit retrospective viewing of past his- 
torical and present trending patterns. Various trends will 
be extrapolated and compared in future time increments. 
On the basis of this totally comprehensive time/energy con- 
tinuum, players will formulate World Game “moves in terms: 
of variable solutions to the problems based on availability — 
and development of resources at present and in the future, 
always doing more with less. A move which does not accom- 
plish more with less will be considered invalid. These solu- 
tions will constitute individual ‘‘sessions’’ or playings of . 
the game, but they’ll never be added up or offered as 
“answers.” 
Instead they'll be reinserted into the computers 
where they’!! be evaluated against the many other incoming 
— 
solutions. The game will never end. The overall program 
simply will be continually modified to accomodate mankind's 
increasing metaphysical wealth as represented by World 
Game solutions, which in turn will mean greater control 
over our physical destiny without resorting to ideological 
premises. 
A branch of the World Game effort will be devoted ex- 
clusively to disseminating its findings to the communi- 
cation channels of the world——the intermedia network of 
television, radio, newspapers and magazines——in ways which 
will dramatically relate World Game discoveries to political 
and social events occurring simultaneously. For example, 
it will be possible to prove with undeniable scientific 
accuracy that a food shortage in a particular section of India 
was the result of this or that political maneuver. 
It is expec- 
ted that within five to ten years the World Game will have 
attained such a high degree of analysis and evaluation that 
_ 
the entire physical and metaphysical events of the day may 
be explained and solutions offered on a daily basis concur- 
~ 
rent with the evening news. 
Fuller: ‘Politicians are going to confess the obvious—— 
that no human beings can keep in mind all the special 
> 
interests of all people and all the whereabouts and unique 
behaviors of all the resources of earth. No human beings 
can persuade other people to behave in unfamiliar, untried 
ways, but the computer can integrate and disclose the critical 
information and be completely convincing. 
... As the 
World Game is played progressively it will disclose a myriad 
of politically untried, unprecedented yet effective ways of — 
solving hitherto unsurmountable problems. These will 
become big news items of the world’s press and international 
wire services. As man gets into more critical proximity to a 
full-scale World War Three, the people of the world will 
Buckminster Fuller’s 
begin to say in increasing numbers, ‘Now that we can see - 
a way in which this and that can be done, we must obviously 
adopt the policies indicated by the World Game.’ Popular — 
pressures will gradually force world politics to yield to 
these mutually-beneficial World Game programs.” 
Fuller admits that mankind may already have violated its 
~ 
occupancy of spaceship earth beyond the point of tolerance. 
Of all the trends and patterns which his work has revealed, — 
none stands out so clearly as that of man’s inherent blind- 
ness, ignorance and indiscretion. Never in history has man- 
| 
kind consciously behaved in its own interest, but rather has 
stumbled blindly and accidentally into success, leaving a 
trail of waste and pollution. But time has run out. This 
wheel's on fire, and it’s rolling down the road. 
problem,” he says, “is the educational problem of getting 
man to realize in time what his problems are, and what the 
most effective priorities may be for saving them.” 
PART TWO 
a 10 
Following i 
is a report on the first World Game Seminar ; 
as 
conducted by Fuller and Edwin Schlossberg at the New 
York Studio School from June 12 to July 31 of last year. 
Schlossberg, 24, is working on a Ph. D. in physics and © 
literature at Columbia University, considering both of —— 
them as languages. He-teaches a combined course in 
© 
physics and literature. He is a generalist, 
acomprehensive 
thinker, a poet, a revolutionary, a technoanarchist. He 
publishes GOOD NEWS, a periodical of the whole earth - 
design systems revolution. 
The seminar was offered as a prototype of the World Game 
4 
and should not be considered a formal “playing,” since 
the necessary computer systems were not yet available. 
= 
However, this report—-—compiled by Medard Gabel—— 
should demonstrate the vast scope and authority of the 
World Game even when practiced by amateurs without the 
optimum technological facilities. 
ie 
HRHRHRHRH HHH 
HHH 
Y 
We worked with the students in mind. We worked to develop 
a research and design team to effectively deal with the data and 
concepts necessary to play World Game. The first four weeks 
of the seminar were devoted to input. Mr. Fuller thought 
aloud about his ideas, concepts, inventions, and discoveries. 
The students did individual research into trends, energy 
sources, and many other information areas. They were con- 
structing a base on which to develop ideas about the whole 
earth. We saw films, read extensively, and traveled through 
the minds of the others in the room. We watched as man 
successfully stood on another body i” 
space and could see 
; 
- 
' 
Pe 
cee 
ay 
“Our greatest 
ges 
eigin
ec
tn
tas 
ete 
Spee 
‘Dw
