ie Lm 
The Economy of Cities 
I think Jane Jacobs’ The Economy of Cities should be listed 
in the catalogue. 
It could go under Understanding Whole 
Systems, Shelter and Land Use, or Community. 
_ This is a psychedelic book: 
it expands your consciousness by 
banishing silly ideas from the switch-mechanisms of your head. 
All kinds of official truths——the idea that cities grow on an 
agricultural base, rather than being necessary to the improve- 
ment of agriculture, for instance——crude notions that get in 
the way of clear thought simply vanish as you read the book. 
What becomes clear from the book is that our cities aren’t 
messed up because of stupidity or shortsightedness. They are 
fouled up by efficient administration and diligent intelligent 
planning, all working on nutty ideas of how the world works. 
Rent contro! in New York, for instance, is. based on the premise 
that high rents are bad, an idea that ignores the common sense 
proposition that high rents can only proceed where somebody 
wants to pay them. 
Be 
Peace, 
David Lloyd-Jones 
New York, N. Y. 
Physicians’ Desk Reference 
I'd like to suggest an additional item for THE WHOLE 
EARTH CATALOG and will include a review since I’ve been 
a subscriber to this for 10 years——Physicians’ Desk Reference 
(PDR). 
\t isa compilation of information from all the 
pharmaceutical houses, $7.50 from Medical Economics, Inc., 
c/o Litton Publications, Inc., Oradell, N. J. 07649 
When your doctor prescribes a drug, he usually doesn’t have 
time to warn you that occasionally it has weird side-effects or 
‘that you shouldn't take it along with certain other drugs, or 
that (for example) it has.a chemical réaction with aged cheeses 
wine and beer that will cause a dangerous rise in blood pres- 
sure. 
With the PDR, as they call it, all you need is the name of 
the drug. Look it up in the front pink index and turn to 
the right page. You'll find a listing of the various forms and 
_ strengths of the drug. This is followed by everything that’s 
known about the drug: Description, indications for needing 
it, reasons for NOT prescribing it, warnings, precautions, 
adverse reactions, dosages, overdosages——the whole works. 
Although it’s written in medical terminology, a layman can 
skip the chemistry parts and make an awful lot of sense of 
it. For example, some drugs,give some people nightmares 
——how would you know where those nightmares came 
from if the book didn’t tell you? 
In case you don’t know the name of your pill or capsule, 
there’s another section where most of these are photo- 
graphed full-size in color. You usually can match up your 
drug with these illustrations and then look up further 
information. 
The PDR brings out an up-to-date edition each year and 
sends supplements between editions to keep you up-to-date 
on revisions and- corrections. 
Hope this is useful. 
Edith Coogler 
Atlanta, GA 
The Parable 
of the Beast 
_ Enclosed is a review of The Parable of the Beast, by John 
‘N. Bleibtreu, something | thought would go very well in 
the catalog, especially as you appear to think so highly of 
Dubos’ Man Adapting. Anyway, here it is, | hope you can 
use it in some way, shape, or form. 
Sincerely yours, 
David B. Schwartz 
ie 
_. Sarasota, Florida 
7s 
» 
=< 
. 
Man's basic nature, for the most part forgotten in this age, is the 
subject of this very fine and enlightening book. Similar to Rene 
Dubos’ Man Adapting, it is in the style of an overview, a synthesis 
of a great deal of biological information concerning man into a 
coherent whole. 
{It is unusual to me in that it is neither a dry 
scientific exposition nor the too-often published pseudo-scientific 
phantasies of a dramatist. A noteworthy exception, it is well- 
documented science in the spirit of philosophy which reads like 
a novel. 
itera 
he 
“The voice of the turtle is heard in the land, heard in all 
_ 
the arts—in literature, painting, and music—and in the 
voices of men and women speaking to one another. 
It is 
_ not the sound of the dove, that sweet and melancholy sound 
_ 
which translators of the Authorised Version presumably 
had in mind; it is the croak of isolation issuing from within 
a vault of defensive armor—the voice of the reptilian turtle. 
This armor we wear—the armor of technology separating 
us from the rest of the natural world—has created us lately 
in the condition of exiles. Nature exists within as well as 
without, and we are become, therefore, exiled from our- 
selves. The style of the catatonic has become the style of 
_. Everyman.’ 
\ 
ae 
Brain Food... 
Earth Rape, with optimism 
The Red Book Wildlife in Danger 
#3 by James Fisher, Noel Simon, Jack Vincent and others 
=: from: Collins, St. James‘ Place, London, 1969 
ss or directly from: 
International Union for Conservation 
#5 of Nature and Natural Resources: 
|!UCN, 1110 Morges—— 
#3 Switzerland. About 10.00$ (70 shillings) 
+ (Introduction, 
p. 19) “But the main battle is now, beyond 
#s any doubt, in the ecological field of habitat maintenance. 
It 
2! can of course be truly said that ever since New Stone Age 
+ times man has altered his environment deeply, with his power 
ts to cut down forests and drain wetlands. When the first men 
#: shortly reach the moon, they will probably be able to see the 
forest slashes of the last century with the naked eye, so 
accelerated have been the environmental changes of the 
ndustrial Age.”” I’m not sure the lads on the moon trip 
did see environmental changes like forest slashes, but | can 
recommend the book highly for anyone seriously interested 
in conservation. 
Tristes Tropiques 
by Claude Levi-Strauss. $2.45 from Atheneum, 122 East 
42nd Street, New York, N. Y. 10017. 
“These considerations have carried me a long way from the 
preparations for my expedition into the western Mato Grosso. 
But they were indispensable if | was to give the reader an 
dea of the intense excitement which attaches to all Amer- 
= ican studies, whether on the archaeological or the anthro- 
* pological level. Such is the scale of the problems, so narrow 
* and so precarious are the paths hitherto trodden, so final 
zs the annihilation of tract after tract of the past, and so 
ss uncertain the bases of our speculations, that even the briefest 
= reconnaissance on the terrain plunges the enquirer into a 
ss state of indecision, in which feelings of humble resignation 
# fight for supremacy with moments of the insanest ambition. 
"i: He knows that the essentials have gone for ever and all 
ss that he can do is to scratch the surface. Yet may he not 
ss stumble on some indication, preserved as if by a miracle, 
= which will shed new light upon the whole problem? 
=! Nothing is possible: everything, therefore, is possible.” 
zz The book is strong on meaningful ritual, town planning, 
=: clear, delicate, precise thinking, motivations of anthro- 
== pologists. 
AH 
Douglass Branch 
Caracas, Venezuela 
Bleibtreu constantly draws parallels between humanoid and lower- 
species behavior, even at a microscopic level; 
“It is also curious that in the slime molds the individual 
members of the community that form the leadership 
group are nonreproductive. 
... 
This is curious, for 
it has a relationship to human societies; it overleaps 
the evidence of most vertebrate communities where the 
dominant animals, particularly males, have greater 
sexual opportunities and generally pass on their 
genetic characteristics differently—in a larger statistical 
degree, than low ranking, non-dominant individuals. 
Often in Human societies many of the most valuable 
members are non-reporductive; members of celibate 
religious orders, ascetics, homosexuals, and so on. 
Reproduction flourishes on the lower levels of societal 
competence, the marginal members of ten reproduce 
disproportionately large numbers of themselves.” 
Many people when they read this book report amazedly that 
Bleibtreu talks about everything. This is close to the truth. 
From DNA, to cannibalism, circadian rhythms, population, 
disease, territorial behavior, serotonin and LSD, to Karma, he 
integrates, in wonderful style and detail, all the biological 
investigation on humans and their world that he feels it is 
important for us to be aware of. It is a commendable 
achievement. 
The Parable of the Beast 
1969; 304 pp. 
$1 -50 postpaid 
from: 
Collier Books 
The Macmillan Co. 
Order Department 
Front & Brown Streets 
Riverside, N. J. 08075 
Lyle Burkhead sure knows math 
|f you want math books of general interest, to be used for recreation 
or meditation, you might consider these: 
(1) W. Ross Ashby, An Introduction to Cybernetics. This is the best 
introduction to the subject. 
It helps to have studied linear algebra, 
but it isn't necessary. 
Does not presuppose knowledge of calculus 
or electronics. 
(2) Courant and Robbins, What is Mathematics? A book for people 
who would find out what music is by listening to Bach, not by 
reading an encyclopedia of music. 
(3) Coxeter, Introduction to Geometry. All kinds of geometry—— 
projective, non-Euclidean, algebraic (plane groups, crystallographic 
groups), etc. 
(4) Spivak, Calculus. A recent book that has been enthusiastically 
received by the mathematics community. Presupposes knowledge 
of analytic geometry. Pure math, no applications. Has a superb 
list of suggested books for further reading. 
\f you want math books that really are tools, consider who would 
need them, what kind of tools they would need, and why. 
People who use only precollege math——algebra, trig, analytic 
geometry——don't need help from the Catalog. They can get 
started by taking high school or junior college courses and reading 
the standard texts, and then work things out for themselves. 
Problems begin with people who are working with intermediate or 
advanced physics, chemistry, electronics, and economics. They 
need to know calculus at least, and probably linear algebra and 
advanced calculus as well. These subjects are almost always badly 
taught, and it’s a slow job working them out for oneself. There’s 
nothing the Catalog can do about bad teaching, but you could 
help a lot by recommending some decent textbooks. 
For instance: 
(1) Richard Courant, Differential and Integral Calculus, two 
vols. 
Infinitely better than the books used in engineeriny calculus 
courses; vastly better than the books used in courses for math 
majors, except honors courses using Apostol or Spivak. 
Has nothing 
about “‘infinitesimals’’ and a sensible, cautious treatment of differ- 
entials. 
Has whole chapters devoted to applications. 
This book is 
a classic, and is widely known and respected by mathematicians, 
scientists, and engineers——but everybody has to hear about it for 
the first time. 
(2) School Mathematics Study Group (SMSG), Introduction to 
Matrix Algebra. The SMSG is where the ‘‘new math” came-from, 
and this book is one of their best efforts. Everyone who needs to 
learn about matrices should have it. Chapter 5 is especially val- 
uable if you want to know what eigenvalues and eigenvectors are. 
(3) Nering, Linear Algebra and Matrix Theory. This can be used as 
a sequel to the SMSG book. 
It has a clear development of the theory 
and a long chapter on applications at the end. 
(4) Buck, Advanced Calculus 
Overlaps somewhat with vol 2 of 
Courant but has a different emphasis and viewpoint. 
Has more 
algebra and topology amore complete treatment of differentiation 
a generally more abstract and modern style — but still pays plenty 
of attention to applications. 
Someone who has studied these four books can take care of himself 
mathematically in almost any circumstances. 
Lyle Burkhead 
Los Altos CA 
P.S. Two other books that ought to be listed: The Feynman 
Lectures on physics (everybody has to hear about this for the 
first time, too) and Crawford’s Waves, vol 3 of the Berkeley 
Physics Course, 
Also The God of the Machine by |sabel Paterson (reviewed in 
The Objectivist Newsletter three or four years ago). 
And Klein‘s Elementary Mathematics from an Advanced Stand- 
point. 
Vol. I: Arithmetic, Algebra, Analysis. 
Vol. II: Geometry. 
Dover Publications, 180 Varick Street, New York, N. Y. 10014. 
This book should be considered as 
acompanion to Courant’s 
Calculus. 
\t is the only survey of mathematics I've seen that 
really deserves to be called a ‘‘tool’’. 
Charles Fort 
SUGGESTION FOR WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Name of item: The Books of Charles Fort. 4 volumes: 
The Book of the Damned; New Lands; Lo!; and Wild Talents. 
from: Ace Books, 
1120 Avenue of the Americas, New York, 
N. Y. 10036 
Review: 
Reading Charles Fort (1874-1932) is like getting a 
| 
foretaste of Buckminster Fuller, so | asked Fuller if he had 
known Fort. He hadn’t, but it turns out he was writing the 
introduction to Damon Knight's forthcoming biography of 
Fort. Ace has recently reprinted Fort’s works in paperback; 
they are stacked with the psychic-and-saucer books. But 
don’t overlook Fort. Each of his books is laden with reports 
of unorthodox, widely recurrent, phenomena——but he uses 
the material as a tongue-in-cheek, comprehensive philosopher. 
He throws galactic theories.at you like paper airplanes, 
laughing at himself as often as at dogmatic orthodoxy. 
Some examples of his style: 
Much of the argument in this book will depend upon our acceptance 
that nothing in our existence is real. The Whole may be Realness. 
—Wild Talents 
e 
Mineral specimens now in museums——calcites that are piles of 
: 
petals——or that long ago were the rough notes of a rose. 
r 
An early stage within the shell of an egg——and a protoplasmic line 
of growth feels out through surrounding substance——and of itself 
\ 
it is lost. Nourishment and protection and guidance come to it 
: 
from the whole. 
Or occasional falls of “manna”, to this day, in Asia Minor, may be 
only one factor in a wider continuance. 
... 
—LO! 
Gene Keyes 
Carbondale, III. 
19 
a 
