iar 
_ Angier Books 
On the Road... 
Spin Fishing 
As wilderness freaks making plans for a get-away to the 
Canadian Wilderness, we were delighted to discover these 
books and grateful to Brad and Vena Angier for doing it 
first and documenting the ways and means. The Angiers 
left Boston and New York over twenty years ago with two 
pack-sacks, a little money and a well-worn copy of ‘Walden 
they traveled by train, canoe and portage to a spot by the 
Peace River near Hudson Hope, B.C. and built a log cabin. 
The Angiers still live in a log cabin on the Peace River and 
Brad has a new book which will be published this year. 
Writing is the Angiers means of making it in the woods, he 
can supply all of his books quickly, and if his letters are 
any indication he will be happy to answer specific questions 
for you too. Write him at Box 149, Hudson Hope, B.C. 
I’m a nut on survival and this spinning reel gadget is a beauty. 
Called a handline spinning reel it’s a hard plastic, 6’’ diameter 
like a wheel. You hold the thing with one hand, and lariet 
fashion, cast with the other. The line spins off the reel as on 
a regular open faced spinning reel, but since this handline reel 
is 6" in diameter compared to 2” or 3" of a fresh or salt water 
reel, the line spins off faster, with less fouling, and also the retrieve 
is much faster. Naturally there is a lot against handline fishing. No 
rod to play the fish and to take the punishment the fish gives out. 
The pull is directly on the line and not on the rod so the line must 
be stronger. 
But I’m talking now about a cheap rig to carry any- 
place with you and one that will land all kinds of fish. 
I’ve had 
more fun with the thing than any rod and reel combination. 
As you know spin fishing (where the fish line pays off the face 
of the spool instead of the reel) is a very old way of fishing. Even 
before the invention of the bottle or can, indians fished in the 
spin off style using a kind of wooden shuttle. People throughout 
the world spin fish off bottles and cans. 
In Mexico it’s called 
the Dos Equies reel after that famous dark beer. 
In Australia they 
use handline spinning reels similar to this Boone Bait Co product 
in three sizes going from a five inch to a ten inch. | bought one 
of these in Trinidad as Trinidad imports from Australia. The 
word on this Boone reel is that years ago the Japanese dropped 
off such a reel in the West Indies. The Cubans then got onto the 
thing and it made its way through Key West and now to Winter 
Park. 
| like to use 25 Ib monofilament line on mine although you can 
use from 15 to 50 Ib. Fill it up (25 Ib test will take about 300 
yards) to within a half inch of the flange, whirl the lure along 
side or around your head and cast. Retrieve smoothly or in short 
bumps. 
How to Go Live in the Woods on $10 a Week (price $5.00; 
Stackpole Books, Harrisburg, PA 17105) is like a Whole Earth 
Catalog for wilderness buffs——all the tools are here for finding 
land, getting to it, and living on it with relatively little money. 
It begins with a comprehensive chapter on how to get started, 
which includes over 100 addresses of sources of information on 
getting land (homesteading, buying cheap, or just squatting); 
getting to the land; employment; maps; agricultural information; 
geological info.; hunting and fishing regulations; weather; etc. 
There are detailed chapters on living conditions in Alaska and 
Canada, exploding some myths and telling some truths about 
each. While the first section of the book is devoted to getting 
everything together for the move, the second section is involved 
with stretching that first grub stake into a lifetime. There isa 
fine chapter instructing the novice at hunting for food (hunting 
for any other purpose is not mentioned) and an excellent chapter 
on preparing wild game for preserving and eating. ‘‘Cabin Canning 
of Meats and Vegetables” answered every question we had about 
working without conveniences. 
Instructions for corning and 
smoking meats are included. Angier gives good information on 
identifying wild foods and some tempting recipes for them, plus 
recipes for preparing elk, moose, bear (even bear bacon), and 
sourdough breads. A must for anyone who wants to go to the 
woods, 
I'm speaking now of lure fishing. With lead and bait of course you 
just let it lie in position until you feel the nibble-strike. As | say 
I’m hung up on survival but I’m also a purist about fishing. 
| 
never use bait, only lures, and only single hooked lures, perhaps a 
spoon or two, but! prefer jigs. Leadheaded jigs. My favorites 
are: 
1. The Bill Upperman bucktails. 
2. The chrome headed 
Japanese feather jigs. 
Mike and Betty Eiss 
Alexandria, VA 
Ten years ago off a beach just north of Puerto Vallarta | was 
casting a Japanese white feather jig off a “Dos Equis’’ reel and 
picking up a channel bass or two and snook. But it was hot and | 
: 
had already drank the beer in order to use the reel and so | took 
to the sea, carrying my beer can reel and line and lure with me. 
Thus began the most pleasure I’ve ever had. | call it Swim Fishing. 
Now these days | take the Boone reel out with me, 25 Ib test mono 
: 
On it, and a bucktail (% 0z) on the end. Off the beaches in Santa 
| 
Monica Bay I've caught halibut, skip jack tuna, small blue shark, 
| 
leopard shark, bonito, mackeral, sand bass, calico bass, white sea 
| 
Porta-Shower 
PORTABLE SHOWER. Complete! Self-contained! 
Needs no connection to water supply or drains. 
bassitie: 
NOW ——shower wherever and whenever you like. 
Cleaner and more hygienic than using public showers. 
Use outdoors with privacy, or in trailers, campers, trucks, 
boats or cabins. Sets up in two minutes. Packs into 
small carton 8 x 8 x 29’. Weighs only 8 Ibs. Fully 
guaranteed for 1 year. 
| 
For bottom feeders | merely kick (using swim fins) along slowly 
and let the lure bounce off the bottom. 
For bonito, etc, | swim 
flat out, holding the reel in one hand and in this way giving the 
jig action with each stroke. When the water is clear and in the 
as 
kelp beds of Point Dume or Laguna Beach | wear a face plate 
rH 
and snorkel, dive and look for the fish. 
I’ve been in a salad of 
! 
kelp 
and into a school of calico and 
placed my 
yellow Upperman 
ae 
d 
G 
A 
] 
vise on the table of sand before es Letting out line | 
kick 
rH 
Simple to use: 
Fill container with warm water and 
to the surface. Then yoyo the lure. Wham, a strike. 
pressurize for 20 seconds. Step into curtained shower 
I've caught great barracuda and mangrove snapper in the Bahamas, 
and turn on water for leisurely 6 to 7 minute shower. 
snook in Trinidad, Pompano in Cozumel and the Virgin Islands, 
; 
Ulua in Hawaii and the Tuamotus, flounder off Hong Kong, jack 
DELUXE MODEL with hand-held telephone-type 
shower head 
$35.95 Ppd. 
in the Phillippines, and once | foul hooked a two ton Manta Ray 
off Yelapa, Mexico. 
E 
BASIC MODEL (without curtain assembly or catch- 
basin) 
$25.95 Ppd. 
Available at selected dealers, or send check or money 
order (Postpaid; Calif. Res. add 5% S. Tax). Send to: 
1 
The beauty with swim fishing is that you swim the water the boats 
' 
! 
can’t work. You also work ten times the water that a surf fisherman 
can because you present your lure parallel to shore, fishing it all 
1 
the way. One of my finest experiences swim fishing was when a 
| 
surf was running off-Ft Lauderdale, Florida. 
| had my lure out 
| 
\ 
| 
\ 
behind me, resting on the bottom. 
| held onto my Boone reel. 
Here comes a wave. 
| body surfed it in and on the way got a big 
strike. 
| rode the wave to shore and reeled in a three pound Jack 
Crevalle. 
Available for $2.00 plus shipping from Handline Spinning Reel, 
Boone Bait Co., Inc., Box 571, Forsyth Road, Winter Park, Fla. 
32790 
I've got another good gimmick for you. You ought to check it 
out. You can’t buy it in retail stores, and | don’t know why. 
I've never seen it for sale, always send to the source for mine. 
Over the past ten years I’ve had four of them and they are by 
far the best and cheapest barbq outfit on the market. 
PORTA—SHOWER 
Suite 300, 999 Commercial 
Palo Alto, California 94303 
|) 
OLD SMOKEY. Looks like two galvanized tin pails sitting mouth 
| 
on top of mouth. Hot smoke oven (better than that expensive but 
_ chic Japanese cooker) with two drafts for control (as good if not 
better than Weber and much cheaper). 
| 
\ 
| use our for everything. No burn. No flare ups. If fat on meat 
does flare, just close drafts somewhat. 
| cook whole turkeys and 
chickens. Set them on lemon slices in foil boat and on grill and 
pop on cover and leave. No turning. Baste some. No spits needed. 
Sometimes | use wet smoke chips. Fabulous for salmon which | 
_ 
have cooked whole or in steaks. 
I’ve got both size Smokey’s but 
"use the No. 14 (14 inch diameter) more often. 
OLD SMOKEY, Burkhead Mfg Co, 1920 Harrington, PO Box 4, 
| 
Houston, Texas.77001 
No. 14 is $9.95, No. 18 is $14.95. No shipping charges. 
ii 
Ben Masselink 
} 
Pacific Palisades, CA 
The Alternate Society newspaper, listed in January Catalog, 
! 
: 
about communal living has moved to new quarters. The new 
Saecendcecccces 
address: 
ae 
P. O. Box 38 
Madison, Ohio 44057 which happens 
to be the address of the Mother Earth News. 
Alternate Societ 
Adobe Hacienda 
. 
hs 
Both papers have given us reinforcement in our search for a 
Are you onto a book outfit in Glendale, Az, called The 
different lifestyle. What we want to try is communal living and 
Adobe Hacienda? They furnish an assortment of Survival, 
$$ — sharing in a rural atmosphere. Mother Earth can encourage by 
__ 
Herbal, Medical, Military documents and books, and their 
# 
giving ideas on possible ways of building shelters and sustaining 
\! 
mail-order service is superior. This outfit seems to be 
gz _ life in the community. 
| 
somewhere right of the Birch Bunch, and some of their 
offerings are pretty scary. Nonetheless, they inadvertently 
(what right-type would do such a thing vertantly?) feed 
the needs and/or curiosities of The People as well. Their 
address is:. Rt 3, Box 517, Glendale, AZ, 85301. 
| 
: 
Sen 
S. Stanton 
a 
ha 
yy 
Pacific Grove, CA 
It helps one with doubts when he can read about others having 
success in the field he wants to try. This is what Mother Earth, 
ss 
Alternate Society and Whole Earth can and are doing for us 
ss 
pioneering (with some fear) souls. 
| 
; 
] 
j 
| 
os 
all are one 
with Love and appreciation, 
K. Bunin 
Edison, New Jersey 
" 
——Money back guarantee—— : 
== Know Snow, he said 
You never know when you might be called upon to identify a 
= snow crystal. For instance, next time you are buried by an 
=: avalanche and waiting to be dug out, be sure to note the 
configuration of the snow particles. 
It might be comforting to 
know it was a spatial dendrite that-got you. 
: Edward LaChapelle, a man who got into snow crystals by way 
= of avalanche research, has produced a fine manual for snow 
scientists and dimensional explorers. Look at the fifty black- 
and-white micro and macro photographs. See some of the 
things that can be done with water. 
Tom Ireland 
East Palo Alto, CA 
= Edward R. LaChapelle, FIELD GUIDE TO SNOW CRYSTALS. 
3? Cloth $6.50, Paper $2.95. University of Washington Press, 
Seattle, Washington 98105 
Movin On 
Tips on familiarizing yourself with an area——we did this 
when we moved into Lake County. Read Yellow Pages, 
cover to cover. The phone book also has other good 
parts too. Also, want ads and local paper provide much 
information of interest to the newcomer. 
We lucked into a fantastic scene——we are CARETAKERS 
on a 5 acre farm on Clear Lake. We get free house, utilities 
and a salary of $125 per month and also all the fruit and 
nuts we can eat from the orchard. 
Fish from the lake, our 
own garden etc. 
| report this because | am amazed at the 
number of CARETAKER POSITIONS open in this area. 
Check the Santa Rosa PRESS DEMOCRAT——there are 
usually several caretaker ads at any given time. Our par- 
ticular ‘’feudal landlord” is a dream——he is only here once 
or twice a month for a couple of days. Rest of the time 
place is ours. He is particularly kind to longhairs. Some 
are not, of course, and generally owners prefer retired 
couples. But give them a good rap about “’youth having 
more energy and creativity’ and they might hire you. 
Worth a try. We got a garden of Eden——you might too!! 
We don’t want to stay here indefinitely, but it makes a 
great ‘‘half-way-house”’ between city and community. 
Larry Kelley 
Kelseyville, CA 
Peter Limmer Boots 
The two most delightful means of transportation may be the BMW 
Motorcycle (about $2000.) and the Peter Limmer Boot (about $40.) 
| wish to suggest the latter: 
In Intervale New Hampshire there is a barn like structure from which 
hangs the simple sign: ‘‘Peter Limmer, Shoemaker’’ Here are made 
what may be the finest hiking boot currently available. Mr Limmer 
and his sons offer the boots at a price which is really extraordinary. 
My wife and | had the pleasure of visiting the shop and being measured 
by Mr. Limmer. He assured us that he usually gets fine results with 
his special mail order measuring pattern though. 
| asked about the 
“unusual’’ poor fit and he explained that the individual need only 
return the boots for refund if he chooses or enclose some suggestion 
about improving the fit. 
In this case, a completely new pair is made 
up. Mr Limmer explained that he can continue this exchange process 
until the customer is satisfied. All he does with the completed boots 
is reduce the price slightly and sell them as “ready mades’’ to his 
shop customers. 
A descriptive brochure is available free. Also, the boots are available 
in an insulated version for an extra $5.00 or so. All in all: excellent 
support with superb comfort. 
The only information necessary: 
Peter Limmer & Sons 
Intervale, New Hampshire 
Peace, 
Kenneth Sole 
Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Boy Scout Boats 
For inclusion in the catalog there is one brochure published 
by the Boy Scouts of America, which | think is free, listing 
various low cost plans for small sail and row boats which can 
be built at very nominal cost. 
(like less than $50-$100). 
Gardner Deane, Jr. 
Atlantic Beach, 
L.I., N.Y. 
They are completely hand made and are really custom made to measure. 
Ne 
