More on Fish Protein 
Dear folks: 
A reply to reader Don Symons (January, p. 46). 
Fish protein concentrate has a long and dismal history. It 
was invented by an elderly, idealistic scientist, Dr. Ezra 
Levin of the VioBin Corporation, Monticello, Illinois, who 
thought he had a handle on curing the protein deficiency 
problems of the world. 
FPC uses trash fish, entrails and all. After a patented pro- 
cess of chemical washings, the product is a gray odorless 
tasteless powder that lasts forever without refrigeration, 
contains a very high percentage of animal protein, and is 
cheap cheap cheap compared to the protein equivalent 
price of beef, say. 
Unfortunately, an unholy combination of Dr. George Larrick, 
then (1965) administrator of the Food and Drug Adminis- 
tration; Hoard’s Dairyman and other milk producers inter- 
ests; and midwest wheat growers, fearing its use as an 
additive to breads, etc. branded the stuff ‘’filthy’”’ and unfit 
for an FDA indentity standard. Four years of political 
battles followed, involving the National Science Foundation 
(or Academy of Sciences), Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, 
Interior Secretary Udall, etc. 
| think the Catalog is great. | may be the only right wing 
nut who thinks so. Up here | am viewed as sort of a com- 
bination Paul Goodman and Max Rafferty, if you can figure 
that one out. 
Yours, 
Rep. John McClaughry 
Jeffersonian Republican, circa 1790 
House of Representatives 
Montpelier, Vt. 
Fish protein concentrate, once heralded as the big weapon in the war 
on hunger, remains an illusive dream despite the best efforts of 
Government and private business to produce it commercially. 
About two months ago the Agency for International Development 
quietly canceled a $900,000 contract with the Alpine Geophysical 
Corporation to produce 970 tons of the flour-like food additive for 
Biafra and Chile. 
Contract penalties of $6,000 a month were running against the pro- 
ducer when it proposed termination late in November. 
The feasibility of commercial production of the odorless and taste- 
less additive made from whole fish anu with a protein efficiency ratio 
of 80 per cent had been demonstrated in the laboratory of the 
Interior Department's Bureau of Commercial Fisheries at Beltsville, 
Md., about five years ago. 
But bad weather and worse luck plagued Alpine from the contract 
signing in the fall of 1968 until its termination. Severe winter 
storms throughout New England delayed the delivery and instal- 
lation of new equipment at the New Bedford, Mass., plant for 
three months. 
A short harvest of Atlantic hake and hake-like fish then pushed up 
the price of the raw product to double the level expected. 
Finally, 
much of the ultimate product did not measure up to the standard 
set in the contract specifications. 
By that time it was Nov. 1, after 
which hake is not available. 
Still, Alpine is not thinking of giving up. 
It hopes eventually to 
realize something from its $3-million investment. With the aid of 
Federal and university scientists the company is now trying to 
discover what went wrong with its process. Only 70 of the 265 
tons of the concentrate inspected could pass the test of contract 
standards for protein efficiency. 
The New Bedford plant was closed a month ago but will reopen 
Feb. 1. By that time Alpine hopes to have a solution to the prob- 
lem of lack of uniformity in the separate batches produced by the 
same process. 
from: 
The New York Times, Jan. 15, 1970 
sent. in by Herb French 
Gasp, Splutter 
About the subscription. ... 
In view of information that | have 
acquired recently, | am not going to take on anything that 
requires a subscription that comes from the U. S. West Coast. 
| would strongly urge you to move inland as soon as possible 
and no later than 1972. You will, of course, get some indication 
of what | am writing about when heavy earth tremors strike 
California around the first few months of 1970. But the serious 
disaster which almost wipes out your State will be in about 2 
years. 
In resettling look to the geological formation called 
the ‘Canadian Shield’’ which extends down from Canada to 
iy 
the mid-west and reaches Chicago. There are other places, true, 
ss 
but in any case stay away from sea or lake level areas. 
Best of luck, 
Burt Kaufman 
oH 
Sydney, Australia 
HH 
Vision, With Rap 
| like your collective prose and the selections, under-the-skin 
communication. So therefore | feel called upon to criticize, 
no matter what your reasons for stopping publication, even of 
the most personal sort! I’m anew convert, and we are the 
crankiest! 
— 
Anyway, here are my suggestions. The catalogue and the 
truck store, truly beautiful in their concepts of space-mind 
preparations, stop short. There are other tools beside books. 
We do need to arm ourselves with knowledge and a clear 
mind to perceive, among other things the applications of 
knowledge. But reading is a limited way to-understanding. 
When | came to the truck store, impatient to get there, I’d 
expected to find too/s, models, materials, 
a community 
making a new design for Stores, that is——Information 
Centers, a place where you launch a new beginnings from. 
| would’ve like to see displays such as macrame and weaving, 
wind generators, plus having the wind generator working and 
producing, what? maybe lights and color machines, or tape 
music, or better yet, if we are speaking of new communities, 
running a motorized pump, that someone there has devised, 
with only available materials and his imagination. And so 
on. | suppose you’d need more room, but that might be 
exciting too! Could you go a bit farther out, close enough 
to urban centers, but still on the land itself, could the shape 
of the store change often——could people design, out of 
cheap materials, or plentiful materials, a changing line of 
Stores. 
I'd like to make a huge canvas shape, for instance, 
having it bulge and corner and dome where needed, held 
up by plastic rods, or aluminum poles——or. another of 
scraps, driftwood and scrap metal. How about a small, 
shifting community, as people moved outward.on their 
spiral, others come in who were interested in the Whole 
Earth concept, and also in spending some time in devising 
needed tools for where the truck store was at, putting 
together solar water heaters, hand made cowboy horse 
gear, (if of course you had horses!) organic gardens to 
feed this Whole Earth Truck Store Family. | think you 
have a lot of very committed people out here, who'd like 
to come together to really do things, solve common prob- 
lems and learn. | think that this should happen in a real 
situation——there are many free university type courses, 
dealing well with theory and practices. | think a new book 
store could perhaps offer information in a more real way. 
That a small staff——or group—— could work out many 
solutions to new communities, to ecology and survival. The 
customers to your store could really be involved in these 
solutions, checking them out, offering their own, would in 
fact, be as neighbors concerned with the success of problems 
solved, not just in theory. The catalogue could, if publishing 
were continued become more as the supplements, be indexes 
of real experience (as the story of Libre, and Gary’s Four 
Changes). 
Horse Freaks of the World... 
As you may well realize, our planet is becoming foul. An 
answer, perhaps? Horses, manure is better than pollution. 
| have noticed that many a freak has realized that the horse 
sometimes proves himself better than the car, and that 
since horses can be kept cheaper than a car, on the whole, 
they are really more economical. 
As a horsewoman and a freak | am aware that many a freak 
doesn't have information at hand, and the books dealing 
with horses don’t really go into the aspects of horses vs. 
the people that really appreciate the horse, more than the 
red neck thinks he does. Anyway, all the books you can 
find on the subject have a minimum requirement for owning 
horses; at least an annual income of $9000 or more. 
But 
this isn’t necessary. There are secrets one cannot find over 
night in owning horses, but, if anyone would like to try 
they are more than welcome to write me, and | am sure, if 
| can get it all together, | can help them take care of their 
horses on a minimum of $5 a month, and have them take 
care of them well (a sick horse is no horse at all, remember.). 
To repeat, if anyone would like some enlightening answers 
to some puzzling questions concerning the freak and the 
horse, living compatably together, do write. 
Love, 
Gail Lusk 
P. O. Box 802 
Idaho Springs, Colorado 80452 
P.S. In case you have any doubts about my qualifications, 
| used to be a Texas red neck that rode barrel racing rodeo 
routes. Enough. 
Skinny Dipping Patrols 
Jemez, N. M. The U.S. Forest Service said yesterday its 
rangers have started ‘hippie patrols’”’ to cut down on nude 
bathing in New Mexico National Forests. 
The Forest Service said rangers on the routine patrols had 
been told not to be surprised at finding hippies ‘‘naked or 
engaged in mystic activities” that sometimes offend tourists 
camping in the forests. 
United Press 
| mentioned earlier my own feeling of diet imbalance, and! 
know that this is not your responsibility; there are groups 
out in the “wilderness” learning just how one digs a well. 
There are many more people getting ready to go out, and 
not quite knowing how. | suppose we will all find out when 
the need hits us, soon enough! | also feel you've done a lot. — 
.So much, in fact, that | would like to see you continue. If 
| haven’t totally turned you off by my Virgo-Vision, perhaps” 
we can get together some time and rap about dream theories. sa 
Thank you for creating the Whole Earth, 
q 
Sincerely, 
3 
Ann Hatch 
ij 
San Anselmo, CA 
oe. 
I’m impressed with these ideas and moved by the vision. | 
expect it’s not all that individual a vision, either; many of 
our readers and customers may have felt vague rumblings 
— 
along these same lines, not to mention our own staff. We 
did rap with Ann——no indication yet whether she’ll go any 
further with it. We can’t do anything to actuate or realize 
— 
this particular vision, beautiful as it is, and still continue the 
trip we're into at the Truck Store, which has its own dictates 
(time, energy, direction, money, space), its own pace, meaning, 
goals, joys, frustrations, tiresomeness, challenge and beauty. 
By the same token, there’s nothing that would turn Us on more 
than to see it happen. A lot of times, when people say, why 
don’t you do such & such, we say hey that’s a groovy idea, — 
why don’t you do it? We’re doing our ideas and even that — 
seems a bit much to tackle at times.. | dunno, it’s always 
eal 
seemed to me that one of the main things the CATALOG 
——— 
says is do it yourself, man. We dig most of the criticisms 
we get very much, whether or not we make changes around 
—— 
them. What! don’t dig is the underlying feeling ! sometimes 
5 
get that we’re being asked to do stuff that belongs by its 
ae 
very nature to the head that thought it up, to do it. It would” 
At 
i 
. 
vins
ay
be so much better ecology if some of the mental energy 
ng 
that gets directed toward us were directed instead towards 
a. 
the real and physical realization of the ideas. A lot of visions 
don’t ever get out of the head, and that can 
be a waste. 
ams 4 
Some get as far as being down on paper, and that’s a begin- 
— 
ning. Only! Or get stopped after they’ve been rapped 
about, because there’s a false sense that something has 
happened. And again, we really don’t mind having visions 
laid on us. But 1, for one, keep wishing folks would realize 
_ 
that we may dig it, encourage it, feed it however we can, 
but in approximately ten cases out of ten we aren’t going 
to DO it. So, all you visionaries, consider, instead, laying — 
it-on your own self, and you might find out whether it’s 
just a trip, or an idea worth realizing in your own life. | 
understand more and more why our collective failures 
_ 
so outnumber our successes. 
It’s just very much damned 
harder to succeed and take the responsibility of that 
re 
position. Who'll do this one? 
e 
Fy oi
mgt 
nl 
te 
lfom
Ham Radio 
erie 
My complements for the nice work you people are doing. Once 
or twice ham radio has creeped into your pages. It is about this 
that causes me to put in my two cents. 
As you have said in “Peradam” possibly in January ham radio 
operators only tell each other their equiptment & exchange weather 
reports. Too true. However there are a few good heads about. In se 
talking to .001% of the hams I find good together people. 
, 
This all leads me to offer my services as a ham radio operatorto 
help anyone truly interested in using the wireless priveleges 
guaranteed the citizens as one of those good ole’ unalineable 
rights. I envision a true underground network. Maybe the 
resistance would be interested in using radio sets to form nets 
which would report underground news. 
The Free press, the 
free wire services might use ham radio for information dispatching. 
Its a free hobby in the various ways it is used by its members. I’m — 
getting tired rapping out weather reports to morons. 
The range 
of radios is easily round’ the world. 
We could begin a world 
conspiracy. Freaks would dig rapping to their friends. 
I'd like to hear from anyone who is into this hobby or interested 
= 
— 
and may I also suggest for additional info people should write the —— 
American Radio Relay League, Newington, Connecticut, 06111. 
It’s the big ham radio club in the sky and their livelihood depends — 
on bringing in new blood to fill the ranks. They'll help with all — 
the nitty gritty facts you got to know, and they'll tell you how 
to become one. 
I hope that this might turn on anew media forus earth petpie 
Thanks for taking the time. 
Bill Levy 
WA2RUD/Q 
731 Limit Avenue 
University City, Mo. 63130. 
I’m Not Surprised 
3 AMERICANS ARE NOT FOR EATING——Even fo Bie. 
sh 
nibals, Americans are unfit for human consumption 
Animals which have 7 parts for every million of DDT in 
=: their fatty tissues are judged in the United States to be, 
unfit to eat. And it is now disclosed that the average 
ss American today has 12 parts a million of DDT 
in his 
epi 
Y 
——M anchester ¢ Radian 
Reprinted from Backwoods Journal, Paradox, New York, 12858. 
$3.00/year (bimonthly). 
” 
{a 
