Place 
ae 
“G< 
“i 
dem, 
On 
Frank’s Creek in Letcher County | talked with Curtis 
Collier, whose story and whose seemingly unavoidable 
fate represent, for me, the story and the fate of the region. 
The Colliers are people with an admirable mindfulness of 
their community. Across the road from his son’s grocery 
store, Mr. Collier has donated land for a park, and has built 
some of the playground equipment himself. When | was 
there children were swinging in the swings. 
It is a shady, 
pretty place, and the Frank’s Creek community isa pretty 
community. The houses along the road up the floor of the 
' 
ae valley are nothing like the sagging soot-stained shacks that 
aa _ have become symbolic of the region——and that are indeed 
prevalent in the valleys and hollows that have had a history 
of coal mining. The houses along Frank’s Creek are modest 
_and decent and well kept. They stand in clean, lovingly 
- tended yards, surrounded by flowers and trees and bird- 
houses. Nearly all have good, ample vegetable gardens. Here 
and there one sees little white colonies of beehives. The 
lopes of the valley are thickly wooded. In the small fields 
The farm Wendell writes about in “A Native Hill” is in 
northern Kentucky, an agricultural region separated from 
the Eastern Kentucky coal fields by the central Bluegrass 
counties. The following statement is an excerpt from 
another essay, ‘“The Landscaping of Hell: Strip-Mine 
Morality in East Kentucky.” 
Standing at the edge of the bench of a new strip mine on 
the mountain in back of the coal camp of Hardburly, one 
can look down into a narrow cove at a house that might 
-reasonably serve as model and emblem of the predjcament 
of the whole region. As mountain houses go, this is an 
exceptionally good one. 
It has been well cared for. There 
is a neat grassy yard with a hedge fence, and a garden. 
The slope above it has been planted in young pines. One 
can see, even from the height of the ming bench, that a 
man has taken a proud stand there, hayput into the place 
the long and dear investment of hisAttention and love 
and work and hope; that becausg’of the expenditure of 
himself there he has come te be in that place what he 
would not have come to bein any other place on earth. 
And one cannot stand there looking down without some 
sense of the great value; the great human potential—-— 
beyond profit makinayand productivity, and all our 
other fashionable ana belittling sociological measures—— 
of that man’s response to the demands and attractions 
of that place. 
But overhanging the house on three sides is the spoil bank 
of the mine. When | was there——in dry weather, soon 
after the cut had been opened——the spoil was already 
beginning to slide. As soon as the winter rains have soaked 
the ground, great masses of muddy spoil will begin to flow 
down the slope toward the house, destroying the timber 
and all the life of the mountainside as it comes. Since 
there is no natural law that protects the plantings and 
buildings of men, it is probable that the descending spoil 
will eventually destroy the stand of young pines, the 
garden, the yard, and the house itself. Or if the slide 
stops short of the house, the acid water from the opened 
coal seam will get into the well and make it unfit to use. 
It will pollute and kill the stream in the crease of the 
cove; where it once ran clear and glittering over the rocks 
it will begin to slide over a residue of mine filth——yellow, 
greasy-looking, stinking, utterly dead. Waters farther 
down will be polluted in their turn. And following the 
pollution will come the rubble and mud, filling up the 
stream beds, increasing the hazard of floods, destroying 
of the bottoms there are good crops of corn. There is 
everywhere the sense of amplitude and health——the sense 
that humanity has made a success here, and that an American 
promise has been fulfilled. 
But now impending over this community is the knowledge 
that the slopes at the head of the valley, as well as some of 
the bottomlands, are soon to be strip-mined. Mr. Collier 
speaks out of a sense of doom gathering ahead of him. 
“Honey,” he says, “it’s going to be awful.” Talking to 
Mr. Collier, and to his son and daughter-in-law in their store, 
one grows aware that a deep dread has entered into this 
place. The valley is tremulous with the anxiety of people 
about to face the death of what they have stood for and 
worked for and enjoyed——the death of their land, the 
death of their meanings. The familiar mountain has begun 
to loom over them as threatening as a volcano. When their 
valley is ruined, what will they do, where will they go, who 
will they be? 
the health and the beauty of whole valleys. If the man of 
the house is not forced to move out of the danger of the 
sliding spoil, if in spite of all he chooses to stay, then he 
will live in a place as ugly and desolate as a city dump—— 
‘the place, his life in relation to it, his hopes, his work, all 
as utterly destroyed as if bombed. And what then will his 
' dreams be, and his hopes? How will he live then without 
a bitterness that will corrode and destroy him——and that 
none might dare hope would destroy only him? 
Or one might drive up the valley road along Clear Creek at 
the foot of the same mountain——feeling the quietness and 
oleasantness of the pretty valley, and then coming aware of 
- the presence in the tributary coves of the gray looming masses 
of spoil; coming aware that one is entering a doomed place 
——to see the story’s end, not in prediction, but in fact: 
a 
house literally swept from the mountainside by a flow of 
mud and rubble from a spoil bank. And below the house, 
seeing the sterile earth and rock and splintered timber already 
cramming in to choke the little stream that runs there, one 
realizes that through its comely valley, Clear Creek already 
runs as dead as a sewer. 
Or one can travel the Little Shepherd Trail, recently built 
along the backbone of Pine Mountain to attract tourists to 
see the natural beauty of Kentucky. But even there if one 
wishes to specialize in natural beauty one dare not look to 
the east, for on that side, paralleling the Trail for many 
miles, the most prominent feature of the scenery is a huge 
strip-mine scar in the side of Big Black Mountain. After 
one looks to the east the mountains to the west will seem 
to stand precariously in the same storm light that surrounds 
the bison and the whooping crane. To look east is to receive 
the poison of a doom that one did not expect at all to come 
upon in the woods. 
Most of the mineral rights in the Kentucky mountains were 
bought up sixty or so years.ago, long before present mining 
practices had become imaginable, for as little as a dollar an 
acre. 
If the price were all that was objectionable in those 
transactions, that alone would be cause to suspect any good 
intentions ever professed by the coal companies. But that 
is far from all. 
Most of these purchases were legalized by deeds that con- 
_veyed, in addition to the ownership of the mineral, the 
right to build such roads, tipples, pit openings, et cetera, 
as would be necessary to remove the mineral from the 
property. The Kentucky courts have until now held 
that this right implies the right to strip-mine a person's 
_farm or tract of timber without further payment. 
In 
other words, the surface rights on a piece of property, 
the mineral rights of which are held by a coal company, 
are now virtually worthless. At any time it pleases, the 
company may overturn the surface and whatever is on 
it-—timber, croplands, buildings, roads, graveyards—— 
without paying compensation or damages: And the point 
is not that this is legally possible, but that it is being done. 
Now, in the mountains of East Kentucky, it is common 
practice. The following complaint, printed in The Hazard 
Herald on September 30, is not unique, but typical: 
. they brought a scraper and pushed red dog from the road 
over into my garden and yard. When | got after them about 
this, they promised to get the red dog off my property and to 
replace my fence. My fence and fence posts are still lying flat 
on the ground where they left them. 
... One of their bulldozer 
operators unloaded his bulldozer right in the edge of my yard, 
drove it over a weeping willow tree that was about fifteen feet 
tall, breaking the tree off level with the ground. The men... 
told me that this . 
. 
. operator had been shell shocked in the 
war so he didn’t know any better. So one cannot help wondering 
if all of these men have been shell shocked as none of them seems 
to have any respect for the other man’s property. Next, the 
culvert at Jack's Branch was stopped up, by mud, rocks, and 
trees... and flooded my barn, my pig pen, washed away a large 
stack of lumber, and washed out my chicken lot. 
You can call their representative about all of this, and he tells 
you he has nothing to do with it. ... 
Finally | managed to get 
a couple of calls through to this operator, but he practically makes 
fun of me for trying to get him to take care of the damage he 
has done to my property. 
| wonder what this man would do if 
someone treated him in the way he has treated me. 
Destroyed: STRIP-MINING 
| rode with Mr. Collier over to some land he owns on Smith 
Creek, a tributary of Frank’s Creek. We drove into a bottom- 
land pasture of about ten acres, well grown in clover and 
grass. We looked at Mr. Collier's fat Angus heifers, and ate 
some blackberries from a briar growing in the fencerow. Mr. 
- 
Collier showed me the barn that he had built himself and 
filled from floor to roof with hay from the little bottom. 
It 
is an attractive, well-used piece of land, and it is a part of 
the basis and support of the life of an attractive and admir- 
able man; badly crippled sometime ago in a mining accident, 
Mr. Collier takes pride in having needed no one to help him. 
But the strip miners have already opened two seams of 
coal in the slopes at the head of Smith’s Creek, the stream 
has silted up, and Mr. Collier has begun a desperate and 
expensive effort to keep it from breaking across his pasture 
and destroying it. With the mountain torn open, there is 
simply no way of foretelling or limiting the damage that 
will be done by the heavy runoff from the rains of the 
coming winter. 
— 
