aE 
the earth as a spaceship. The students were working to make 
visible the coordination of that spaceship in order to accel- 
oft 
erate the trend toward physical success for all humanity. 
Each day the growth of the students and the growth of World 
_ Game was extraordinary. Without fear, without competition, 
_ the students worked together to realize World Game as fully 
as they could. The last three weeks were intense with research 
and organization on how to display the findings that were 
being made, The energy and information grew visibly before 
_ us. We were working at the frontier and each student was 
working at his frontier. It is dramatic to see human beings 
so concerned with the operation and well-being of the earth. 
Mr. Fuller said at the start of the project that it was the most 
important work to be done. 
|. PRE-SCENARIO FACTS. 
- Our pre-scenario facts consist of the conceptual tools which 
_ we found ourselves using most often in our dealings with 
_ the whole earth. They are by no means even an attempt at 
- being complete, but are merely a general frame of reference 
| 
for us, as individual participants, to fit our respective special- 
izations into. To a large extent the specifics of World Game 
~ 
left with its participants; what is here is the general base we 
started with and evolved through as our individual under- 
standing and refinement grew. 
) 
| 
; 
A 
Finding the needs of one man led us to finding the needs for 
mankind. As we began to deal with man on the collective 
level we realized the need for establishing a frame of reference, 
or conceptual tool, to deal with collective mankind’s needs. 
The “bare maximum” was what evolved. Rather than take 
what was thought to be the bare minimum for mere subsis- 
tence levels, we elected to establish levels which would allow 
man to realize, not his minimum potential, but his maximum 
potential, anything less than this being, by our definition, 
i sub-human, So, in looking at calorie levels, we found the 
Le 
baa available to everyone. We then asked: How many acres 
| 
_ per capita are necessary to produce the bare maximum 
food requirements? 
In order to supply mankind with his internal needs we 
_ found 
it necessary to evolve a bare maximum parameter 
~ for external metabolics which would guarantee the 
maintenance of man’s internal metabolics. This bare 
_ maximum is 1242 energy slaves per capita by the year 2000. 
(Note: one “‘energy slave’ is defined as a machine or 
A system equivalent to 37.5 million foot-pounds of energy). 
Ee Broken down, that is 15,000 kwh and eight metric tons 
a of coal-equivalents per capita per year. This non-linear 
_ yardstick for establishing external relative levels of the 
development of man’s potential to be “human” was 
arrived at by taking the projected U. S. needs for the 
year 2000 (present need is 7000 kwh), because it was 
_ 
the maximum. Using these parameters we found that, 
~ mankind will need a total 100 trillion kwh, 8.5 x 10! 
calories, and 21.9 x 10’tons of protein in the year 2000. 
| 
_ 
(We used the U.N. figures on projected populations for 
; _ these calculations.) 
_ 
We compared bare maximum requirements with present 
per capita consumption. We sought to establish a bare 
maximum communications system for the world. We 
, 
a learned what percentage of world people can presently 
: _ be guaranteed the bare maximum. We sought to find 
_ the bare maximum for world transportation. We asked 
‘how much bulk food is produced in calories? How much 
~ 
copper, aluminum and steel is involved in production? 
t 
present, it takes 42 kwh to produce one metric ton 
food.) We sought to find the average per capita protein 
consumption for the world (68 grams, of which 20 are animal’ 
protein). 
fie 
In order to correlate the vast amounts of data we were accum- 
ulating about the world, we devised a chart with which we 
could clearly display visually our basic working information. 
This chart was a triangular grid on which one of the three axes 
were the 22 major geographical areas of the world and their 
individual countries. The second axis consisted of, in-five- 
year increments from 1965 to 1000, figures on population, 
_ population density, calorie and protein intake, total kwh, 
“metric tons of coal-equivalents and energy slaves. The last 
& -axis could indicate up to 20 possible world-trends 
for each 
_ 
area and country. We used thirteen: 
fossil fuel potential, 
yi 
ife expectancy, mortality rate, arable land, housing, amounts 
a 
sopper, aluminum and steel, food literacy, reinvestable 
‘ 
time and hydropower. 
¥ 
The chart was four feet high and stretched 60 feet around 
the:game room. We also employed two 10-by-15 foot 
cea 
‘ 
of 
f 
Dymaxion maps with five clear acetate overlays each to 
visually present our data on a geographical whole earth. 
Information about the world’s metals sources, world 
man, the power network, alternate power sources, present 
population and Year 2000 population projection, food 
production and transport, was presented on seven of the 
overlays while three remained free for use during game + 
playing. 
Il. SCENARIO. 
: 
- 
Once we knew what mankind had and what he needed to 
have, we began to experiment with ways he could go about 
getting his needs. These ways we called “scenarios.” (What 
are the ways in which man may be enabled to participate 
more effectively in his relation with the universe?). Through- 
out our work we found ourselves returning to one common 
denominator: Can you industrialize an area without elec- 
trical power? How can man take care of all of his essential 
physical needs so as to allow himself to develop his unique 
metaphysical abilities? Whether we had researched food, 
communications, travel, housing, or economics, we always 
returned to electrical energy once we began to formulate 
any hypothesis about satisfying man’s needs. 
In order to 
enable people to be fed properly we found that they would 
first have to have a sufficiently high input of electrical 
energy to process, transport, and store food and dispose 
of wastes. We found that, when dealing with collective 
mankind, it was imperative that we attend to man’s external 
metabolics first, and these would then take care of individual 
man’s internal. metabolics. Thus the ‘Energy Scenario’ be- 
came our first move in the World Game. 
After researching and then plotting the world’s electrical net- 
work (generating stations and transmission lines) we devised 
a way of developing and improving its overall- efficiency as 
the first step towards the bare maximum for all mankind. 
(How long would it take to get a minimum of kwh distrib- 
uted throughout the world?) By utilizing the world’s hydro- 
electric power (rivers and tides), without any further devel- 
opment of thermal plants, and taking advantage of the 
increased efficiency of super-high voltage long-distance 
transmission lines (one million volts, 1500 miles) in a day/ 
night seasonal hookup, we were able to demonstrate that 
with present methods, technologies, projected population 
ORLD G 
figures, metals resources, and efficiency levels in power 
generation and consumption, it would be possible to bring 
everyone on earth to a minimum of 2000 kwh per year by 
1980. 
The present kwh level of Europe is 2000, and as such not 
below our projected bare maximum of 15,000 kwh for the 
year 2000, because with Europe’s level of industrial devel- 
opment it would be possible to. raise the per capita kwh to 
15,000 by the year 2000. We asked: How much copper 
wire is needed to carry the power necessary for the year 
2000 for both industrial and home use throughout the 
- world? How far ahead can we conceive a future life-style? 
What's the time-lag between installation of electrical 
energy and an adequate food supply? How much metal 
is involved to produce the kwh needs for the year 2000? 
When the energy input of an area is raised, there is a corres- 
ponding rise in communications capacity which in turn 
- 
increases the necessity of the “have-nots” to become ““haves.”’ 
(In 1938 Fuller determined that when the equivalent of 
the work that could be done by 200 human slaves was 
available in electrical and other energy units used by a 
family of five, that family is included among the “*haves.’’) 
In the scenario, the vast hydroelectric potential of both 
South America and Africa is utilized to raise their respective 
levels to the per capita figure of 2000 kwh, and the surplus 
is transmitted via the electric network to areas where there 
are deficits of electric power. Because we do not have a 
global network at the present time, the U. S. and other indus- 
trialized countries produce and use during the night hours 
only a small: percentage of their electrical power capacity. 
With a global electric grid, power could be generated at 
day and night total capacity and transmitted to the day- 
time peak needs around the earth. (Using our present 
“technology, can we provide electrical needs for everyone 
without polluting our air beyond endurance? What is pol- 
lution?) 
: 
The scenario utilized hydroelectric power for other consid- 
erations than what is presented above; besides the efficiency 
and pollution problems of thermal plants, it became over- 
whelmingly apparent that our ‘‘savings account” of fossil 
and nuclear fuels would soon be depleted at the bare max- 
imum level of consumption. Our constantly-replenished 
“income” energies were the obvious choice. The amounts 
of metals, principally copper, aluminum and steel, that 
would be needed for such an undertaking are within grasp 
of earth’s present economic and industrial development: 
approximately 9000 tons of steel per. 1000-million watt 
hydroelectric plant, and 60 tons of steel and 25 tons of 
aluminum for a mile of power line at present efficiencies. 
(How can we accelerate efficiency throughout the world?) 
We chose to keep efficiency levels and technological com- 
petence at present levels to show we could do this today, 
with what we have. (How much metal is needed for 100 
miles of power lines? When is a game a game?) 
After demonstrating man’s potential competence for bring- 
ing the world average per capita kwh up to 3613 with 
no one below the present European level of 2000 kwh, 
stage two of the electric scenario began. Utilizing increased 
efficiencies, technological progress such as laser-beam power 
“transmission, and some of the earth’s varied income energy 
sources (What is the potential kwh from wind power? Tidal 
power?), the per capita level of kwh is brought up to the 
15,000 bare maximum in the year 2000. 
Furnishing an area with enough electric power for its indus- 
trialization brings:to that area the potential to satisfy its 
, bare maximum food requirements. Knowing from the energy 
scenario that we could count on using two per cent of the 
total electric power for agricultural uses, we then looked at 
ways to increase the per capita calorie and protein levels to 
the bare maximum. (What percentage of electric energy is 
essential for food production?) A startling fact which became 
obvious upon looking at food production was that the world 
produces more than enough to feed its people adequately, 
‘ but that in transport, storage and processing, 90 per cent of 
the tonnage of food is lost (how do we identify waste?). 
If 
we could bring methods to increase worldwide efficiency, at 
the rate we increased food production in the past, the world 
could feed its population for some,time to come. 
Shipping food halfway around the globe Is inefficient. For 
example, in 1967, Asia imported and exported the same 
amount of rice. Ships could be used to transport materials 
not native to a particular area, or the metal from the ships 
could be used more profitably elsewhere. Part of the elect- 
rical power set aside for agriculture could be used to increase 
efficiencies in short transport to some areas with low farming 
efficiency. The increased use of fertilizers and farm equip- 
ment, in addition to the increase in knowledge of farming 
brought about by higher communications capabilities, would 
help bring the needed increase in efficiency necessary to 
have the entire population at bare maximum by 1980. 
The efficiency would be somewhere between the UsSés 
(feeding about two people per acre) and Japan’s (feeding 
six people per acre). It would be difficult to raise the 
world’s efficiency to that of Japan’s, using her methods, 
because a tremendous amount of manpower would be 
drawn into agriculture. (Approximately 40 per cent of 
Japan’s people are engaged in agriculture as opposed to 
nine per cent in America.) There are many new ways to 
produce food. Examples: 
using algae (chlorella and others) 
for food: feeding bacteria plant wastes such as stalks, 
sawdust, and letting them convert these to food for man; 
and synthesizing amino acids. However, we didn’t employ 
them in our scenario because we did not want to make a 
move which would assume changing people’s food habits. 
At present, most of the important variables in farming are 
not controlled because the system is as yet open. Ina 
closed system such variables as weather effects, insect 
pests, loss of water and nutrients would be controlled, 
or the detrimental effects eliminated. One experimental 
system could feed 500 people per acre——which would 
mean a population of six billion people could be fed using 
only 24 thousand square miles of land. (We're now using 
around 7 million square miles.) This would be approximately 
the area Japan uses to feed her people today. 
Given enough electrical power, the external metabolics, the 
earth could feed as many people as she needed——up to 7.8 
trillion, for example, on presently-farmed land using the 
aforementioned experimental system. From this scenario 
we went on to examine some of the effects these scenarios 
would have on other areas of man’s life. 
Il, FUTURE DIRECTIONS. 
After working out scenarios for satisfying what we considered 
the two most vital bare maximums——external electric energy 
and internal food supply——we evolved into some of the pos- 
sible synergetic scenarios that would result from the first 
- moves. The establishment of bare maximum levels of the 
above throughout the world would engender the need for 
bare maximums in housing, medical attention, income, 
communications and travel. 
The housing scenario we were working on clearly showed 
the inadequacy of our present system. At the present rate, 
the use of metals in housing would prove to be totally 
insufficient. Metaphysically-engendered materials such as 
plastics will have to be developed if we are to solve mankind's 
housing needs. The housing scenario encompassed more than 
just the shelter needs of the world. As it evolved, 
we saw that it would encompass communications 
and mobility. With the trends of increasing rs § 
| 
————$_—_ 
