Learn Blacksmithing ~ 
Cooling & Heating, the old & the new 
The old people of the dry, hot, Southwest filled porous jugs 
with water and placed them on their window ledge; as water 
seeped out it evaporated cooling the temperature of the house 
air. The dryer, the cooler. 
In India they wet grass mats that 
they put in the windows. This is a very effective, cheap air 
conditioner. 
Fundamentals of blacksmithing can be learned at the Turley 
Forge, Camino Altito, Santa Fe, New Mexico, 87501. 
Needed is a‘liking for hard physical labor and the $300 
“tuition for a six week basic course (students make own 
arrangements for lodging and meals). Sessions limited to 
two students per class assure intensive instruction and plenty 
of personal attention. 
Hope this knowledge can help some people. We plan on going 
to British Columbia where we'll get the westerlies coming from 
the south. 
P.S. 
Whole Earth, | know that: comfort is not dependent upon air 
temperature but rather heat loss which can be through infrared 
radiation. Normal heating heats the air enough to heat the walls 
enough to radiate heat radiation (infrared) so the walls won't 
absorb our radiation. Comfort can be obtained with little heat 
input if the walls are lined with an infrared reflector (ie. aluminum 
foil). But | can’t find a way to use the knowledge. 
The concentrated course covers essentials of smithing: draw- 
ing, upsetting, hot rasping, forge welding of mild steel, etc. 
Arrangements also may be made for concentrating upon 
‘special areas of student's interests. Instructor is Frank 
° 
Turley who has served under one master iron worker and 
' -two master farriers and holds a certificate from the Oregon 
_ 
farrier’s course. 
_ | took Turley’s course and can strongly recommend it for 
Fj those with a genuine interest. Blacksmiths formerly 
_ served several years apprenticeship and obviously no one 
‘e can master the trade in six weeks. However, | know of no 
— other school of this kind and with the high quality of 
_ instruction offered, a dedicated student can learn the 
basics of smithing in this period. The course can benefit 
prospective ornamental iron workers, horseshoers, metal 
| artists, and others. 
On acold Wisconsin winter night, a house insulated on/y 
with aluminum foil lining can be kept warm with only the 
heat from three living bodies. However, the moisture from 
their breath eventually condenses on the foil making it 
no longer reflective in infrared. I’m sure many people would 
be grateful if you could overcome this difficulty. (perhaps 
with something else easily installed for the moisture to con- 
dense on?) | leave it in your hands. 
Requests for information should be addressed to Frank 
| Turley at the address above. 
; 
a 
Marc Simmons 
Cerrillos, NM 
Jai Baba, 
Tom 
You'll Build Your Next House of Molasses 
We contend that since the bricks are dirt, ‘they're cheap as dirt.” 
33 
Thoughts on Space Heaters 
We have determined that it takes 3050 of the big bricks to make a 
: 
one-story adobe house of five rooms. You'd need a dozen barrels 
_ Molasses used to be an ingredient of cookies that mother made or 
of Plastic B at $24 a barrel to do the job. That's $288 for the main 
_ Heat is another problem. Now as | see it we have made no 
| 
something to put on hot cakes if you couldn’t get maple syrup. 
shell of your dwelling. You'd set it on a waterproof, Plastic Bized 
progress since the ‘Franklin Stove.” Well this stinks. Let me explain. 
"But today, if you visit our laboratory, you can hardly turn around 
adobe slab. Then, used Plastic B spray on the walls and ceiling” — 
Chimneys work by heating a column of air to make it rise. Therefor 
: 
~ without bumping into molasses. Beyond festoons of Spanish moss 
and on the exterior if you want astucco-type finish. You It have 
creating draft. A fireplace with heavy chimney is worlds worst, and 
| behind our home is an entire building made of molasses. 1t houses 
to buy 2 by G.rafters and joists. But the whole house should not 
the fire cannot be banked at night, cause the chimney is forcing 
| 
the machinery for making more molasses products. To get to it, . 
cost more than $150 a room, exclusive of plumbing and electricity. 
draft over it, and making it burn harder. 
Fuel is gone quickly and 
| you walk along a molasses driveway that looks, feels and acts like 
And about that driveway? You can make that yourself, too, 
now fire is out and all the warm air is pumped out of the house and 
° “black top.’ Here and there, molasses building bricks are drying 
if you like and no one will ever be able to tell it from black top. 
boy! is it cold in the morning. Or else fire is smothered completely 
in the sun. saper eit le sete As eer on a molasses Se 
: 
Fifteen pails of plain beach sand to one pail (about two gallons) of 
with the same results. 
__ 
examine samples of 
hard 
or 
flexible molasses sewer pipe 
that res 
Plastic B, and 
you've 
got about a square 
yard 
of driveway. 
In 24 
bes 
ose 
F 
P 
 onalaboratory table top made of molasses. There are samples of 
hours, it’s re, a ee No heavy hata eee A 
RInEY reinaee 
Say Dives igh a ilhs dali OF cede and ah eis 
ie piolesscs plaques flexible as rubber, molasses plaques as hard as 
essary, though the more compacting the harder the surface. 
nae beh es e also. 
And 
when 
fire is banked it cools quickly an 
| 
rock, 
: 
, 
? 
: 
; 
We compacted our own driveway 
with an ordinary 
lawn roller. 
: 
; 
: 
: 
x! The 50-foot molasses black-top driveway you walk on would cost 
ee ies ateahelPlastie Bias et Sa 
uitdian pashate mbetindestart 
is, selec Nothing works better. Everything else is between 
¢ the average homeowner about $50. Less if he did it himself. A 
rolling. ... 
eSE eX Tee sis 
five-room house built with molasses adobe brick on a molasses slab, 
Bh 
hatte 
ae 
; 
Per 
alth 
ee 
ae 
So a stove with stove pipe chimney is postulated good huh? 
B finished with molasses stipple spray outside, troweled molasses 
hi i Astle Ue EN cae 4 ok ee Sebi ves sti chi ate 
Lousy! When a stove burns it sucks cold air in the bottom and 
| 
plastic inside, would cost a man less than $1000, exclusive of 
PUGS SHUEY: 
ae cae CUSED CTE 
te seh 
heats it using its oxegen so it must be exhausted from the top. 
| 
electricity and plumbing. What's more he'd have a house that 
eg ee ene in 
goith moistureproof bags, which 
can 
Its full of combustion products and its poison so out with it. 
i would stand a hundred years or more——moistureproof, sound- 
Se 
re 
ents ia! Jalon. 
Now we have avacum in the building so every seam leaks cold 
| 
proof, self-insulated, termiteproof. 
It’s the cheapest building 
Thinned with water, it can be sprayed on the outside of an old 
air into it. You want to get warm so you sit close radiant heat 
1 t material in the world. 
house like stucco, troweled on old uneven floors to level them 
is all you get as you are in the cold air circuit. And the warm 
__ Naturally, to make these things you don’t just take a barrel of 
and give them a continuous surface like rubber tile, spread on 
air heats the ceiling and convection currents bring it around 
pure molasses and start gumming everything up with it. Powdered 
table and counter tops to give them a flat surface impervious to 
again to the bottom of the stove and so up the flue. 
Its small 
_ molasses is the basic ingredient of a new thermosetting plastic 
acids and alkalis, laid on interior walls like plaster or molded into 
comfort knowing that you are heating up the outside and 
| 
that does the trick. By mixing this powdered molasses with plain 
forms. Since it’s waterproof, it’s ideal for lining anything from 
hastening spring. Of course this is severely aggrivated during 
bunker fuel oil and certain catalysts, we have come up with a 
showers to old-farm outbuildings. Eventually, the material will 
a storm with high winds. 
| was snowed in once with fire 
thick black Plastic Bitumen we call Plastic B concentrate. 
By 
come impregnated with a variety of color, so no painting will be 
going up the pipe like a blowtorch and | had to cling to the 
altering the formula slightly, we have made it in three different 
necessary. ... 
stove to get warm. 
It was a pot type oil heater. Radiant heat 
a 
just wasn’t enough to warm the outer cover. Cold air was coming 
grades to produce different degrees of hardness. 
j 
/ 
r 
in everywhere. Windows were covered with plastic sheet and it 
To show how it can work on an old building, a 150-year-old cook- 
| i Plastic B, mixed with clay and sand, produces a waterproof adobe 
house was falling apart. Using the spray, we have put a complete 
bowed into the room very strongly. Chimney was a real pump. 
brick hard as concrete. A different mixture of the same ingre- 
new surface over the inside walls and ceiling, using about $6.00 
All we were doing was burning oil at a fantastic rate. inever 
Ls dients makes a cheap, quick-hardening paving material for drive 
worth of Plastic C. We also troweled the thick material on the 
saw such a flame in a gun type oil burner. 
ways, highways, parking lots, tennis courts and landing airplane 
old, uneven wood floor. You use a mixture of mostly sand to 
; 
: 
| 
strips. Substitute clay and a fibrous filler for the clay and sand, 
_ 
fill in the low spots. Then a thin layer of standard Plastic C is 
Opening the bottom of the stove to the outside would have made 
and a brand-new plastic is formed, Plastic C. This can be mixed 
laid on top. When the floor of the cookhouse is finished, the 
the inside of the house neutral as far as air pressure goes and 
would have made the air warm. This would not have prevented 
the fire from roaring as the chimney would still be a pump. 
But 
it couldn’t pump warm air out. 
with water and sprayed outside a building to give it a tough 
outside will be sprayed——right over the old shiplapping. 
stucco finish that won't crack or come loose. Troweled like 
: 
plaster, Plastic 
C makes smooth inside walls, floors, ceilings 
_ and impervious table tops. ... 
- The real secret of Plastic B is the dehydrator, which takes the 
sticky blackstrap molasses and makes a dry granular substance of 
_ jt-—like brown sand. We had a tough time devising a drier to do 
the job. Centrifuges gummed up in no time. Freeze driers solidi- 
We usually nail tarpaper and fine chicken wire over the surface, 
so we don’t have to fill in all the hollows and consequently use 
three or four times as much Plastic C. 
Now suppose we put the cold air supply in the center of the chimney. 
A gust of wind would pump air equaly from both sides of the fire. 
The fire just wouldn’t know it. It would continue to burn slowly. 
Not only that but the cold air flue now becomes a heat exchanger. 
The cold air is progressively warmed as it nears the fire and with 
When complete, the old cookhouse will be tight as a battery box 
upside down—-—sealed inside and out against weather, termites 
and moisture. 
All for a materials cost of about $25. 
| 
fied the stuff in gobs, Hot air only did half the job, and if heat was 
Besides its unique qualities, we expect the demand for this molasses 
waste heat 75% air is nitrogen which is heated for nothing and 
boosted the molasses caught fire. 
plastic to be high largely because of its low price-—which we 
$5 
represents loss. This loss is mostly now returned as heat is extracted 
q Today, in the pilot plant, the blackstrap molasses goes into a hot 
believe will always be low. Blackstrap molasses has jumped in 
fromuit 
tec! 
ea 
? 
Ror 
rice 
per 
gallon since we 
started. 
It’s still cheap. But if it gets 
: 
: 
: 
air drier of our own invention. Blackstrap molasses is pumped into 
any fper we'll paren a Gea apa Wh wae is at Sica 
Hibs Teepe hs at the top of the chimney would be slight 
S 
Py 
. 
‘ 
. 
2 
i] 
! 
. 
the top of the big drumlike drying chamber under pressure. There 
and much cheaper. Sure it will be synthetic molasses, but Plastic 
g 
M 
it passes through 
an area of high heat in a split second. It's pow- 
B is synthetic asphalt. How synthetic can you get? As synthetic 
| would like to build a stove such as this right now but cannot as 
dered before it knows what happened, and falls to the bottom of 
adnacostacy: 
am broke, busy, have no need, have no welding equipment. This 
the drier like snow. But it didn’t happen overnight. For instance, 
: 
‘ 
must all change soon 
(I hope) it must anyway before | can think 
until we put in strong, stainless steel pipe, feedlines burst under 
A number of people have questioned us about the wisdom of 
about my dome. 
e tremendous pressure. Hot molasses would geyser all over every- 
using sugary substance like molasses for building material. One 
—E 
hing. We spent weeks cleaning molasses out of our hair and scrap- 
woman wanted to know what we'd do to prevent ants and flies 
Perhaps Zomeworks could try it. 
i ing 
it off the walls and ceiling. 
from eating her molasses driveway. We told her all Plastic B 
Love, 
Ree 
. 
F 
Pale 
driveways and raods would have to be posted with ant-sized signs 
Bill Lan 
Once mixed with oil and catalytic agents, the powdered molasses 
saying ‘Please Do Not Eat the Highway.” 
ge 
flowing from the drier becomes a regular polymerized plastic with 
f 
4 
Sweden 
remarkable properties. Anyone can make Plastic B-brick himself. 
Actually, since the molasses has been completely poly merized, 
— 
Take a regular mortar-mixing box, and hoe up what looks like 
there is no sweetness or food value to be found in it. The experi- 
: ‘cement. It's actually 65 percent plain sand, 30 percent clay and 
mental driveway only has a normal quota of ants and none of 
_ 
§ percent liquid Plastic B. Water is sprinkled on and hoed in until 
them look like they're eating it. But, you've got to admit that 
- the mixture has the consistency of stiff mortar. The man trowels 
a molasses house really would be “Home, Sweet Home.” 
this into wooden forms, one measures 4 by 8 by 16 inches, or 
Very truly yours, 
_ about eight times the size of a regular red brick. The other is 4 by 
Z 
8 by 8 inches. Off come the forms immediately and oddly enough, 
Robert Morse 
the wet bricks stay set. In three days they’re dry enough to stand 
United Nations 
on end. They are laid the same way as conventional bricks. 
Centre for Housing, Building 
There's nothing new about adobe bricks, but there’s something 
Sots am ee 
{ 
‘new about these. The Plastic C acts as a binder and makes them as 
Grand Central Station 
“rugged as concrete. Plain adobe has never been practical in wet 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
% 
ntry because rain washed it away. Plastic B makes the brick 
s 
Pie 
bess 
: 
rproof. We have set bricks in water for 30 days beside other 
Sent to us by the Transformer. 
i BeBe sPlastic B-brick absorbed two percent moisture, cement brick 
eight percent, and regular red ceramic brick twelve percent. Plastic 
_ B-bricks have been lying all over the yard in rain, frost and heat for 
-ayear. They still look and test as good as new in the jaws of the 
_ 
pressure jack in the laboratory. 
