McBee Maligned 
Pp. 77 
The real reason I’m writing is about the hint on McBee 
Keysort——page 77 Fall ‘69, which is by far the most 
expensive system of its kind sold. If you’re really stuck 
on keysorting, contact INDECKS, Arlington Vermont 
which can give you everything McBee does except that 
useless printer, for about FORTY DOLLARS LESS. 
(Whole starter set about $12.00.) But actually, keysorting 
is a relatively inefficient hand-held deep index (which is 
what these systems are called by information theorists) 
for a number of reasons, all of which can be found ina 
very informative article by a Chemical Engineer, Ralph 
Cushing, in Chemical Engineering, Vol 70, No. 1, Jan 7, 
1963: ‘Improving Personal Filing Systems’. Cushing 
discusses his own system which | have found really 
helpful in organizing my materials on Japanese History—— 
so its pretty flexible——its a ‘‘free key word syntactic 
concept coordination system” which beats the ass off 
McBee’s alphonumeric subject system. Not only is the 
material accessible in a more natural manner, words and 
phrases as descriptors rather than numbers, but the 
system costs exactly NOTHING to make——a package 
of 3X5 and 5X8 blank index cards and you're in business. 
One drawback is that the system must be kept in order, 
but thats not really a drawback since the info is stored 
in order of accession, which makes it a real snap to 
correct indexing mistakes and to update the system—— 
operations which are either prohibitively time consuming 
or impossible with keysort, depending on your informant. 
Matt Greene 
F 
New York, N. Y. 
p. 82 
lovers 0.0.0. 0,0,0 9.0.0.9 
‘eter 
arorese,8. 
0.01808. 
otetetotererorore 
els ee 
From a Medical Student 
| did, however, register a note of dismay at the listing of The Handbook 
of Prescription Drugs. Pharmacology, in case you have not yet looked 
it up, may be defined as the study of the preparation, actions, and uses 
of drugs. Thus, although | am only a grad student, | feel obliged to 
comment on this book. Strictly speaking, there is no such thing asa 
“generic equivalent.” The term should be ‘‘chemical equivalent.” 
Most drugs currently used are so potent that doses are less than half 
agram. This means that the drug manufacturer is obliged to dilute 
drugs so that a dosage form may be of aconvenient size. 
In addition, 
if the dosage form is a tablet (commonly, but incorrectly called 
pills’), then, no matter what the dosage, various agents must be 
added which will allow the formation of a compressed tablet. The 
consequence of these added or adjuvant materials is that they often 
affect the efficacy of the dose of the drug. 
An excellent case in point is aspirin. Most aspirin tablets contain 
5 gr (300 mg) of aspirin. However, the actual tablet weight is 
several times this. This is due to the addition of diluents, binders, 
stabilizers, and disintegrators. Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) is a 
very unstable compound, and in itself, even in its purest form, is 
a severe irritant of mucosal tissue, such as is found in the stomach 
and intestines. 
It has been estimated that about a teaspoonful 
(5 ml. or 1/6 oz.) of blood is lost for each aspirin tablet ingested. 
However, this value is only for pure aspirin, and aspirin easily 
breaks down in the presence of moisture to acetic acid (vinegar) 
and salicylic acid (used for removing corns). By this time, it 
should be obvious that the care and skill with which a tablet or 
any medication is made and the extent of testing of the final 
product has a direct effect on the action of the product. Thus, 
when you open that bottle of cheap aspirin and smell the odor 
of vinegar, it is advisable only to dose your sewer system, unless, 
that is, you feel that you have a corn in your stomach that you 
would like to remove. 
Another interesting case is one cited in the catalog, prednisone 
versus Meticorten. There are several cases reported in the medical 
literature where a patient received, not necessarily Meticorten, 
but a “brand name” prednisone while hospitalized, and then was 
discharged with a prescription written generically. 
It was found 
that several prednisone tablets made by “generic’’ manufacturers 
were considerably less effective than the ones previously dispensed. 
There are efforts being made by the AMA, American Pharmaceutical 
Assoc., and the Federal Government, as well as the manufacturers, 
to develop standards for drugs. However, these standards, when 
available, are basic minimums. There is no way at present of 
insuring anything but basic physical similarity between two 
“generically equivalent’ medications. Thus, two aspirin tablets 
may both meet the legal standard of disintegration in less than 
thirty minutes in a special apparatus, but one tablet may take 
29 minutes, while the other takes ten seconds. 
| have seen this 
happen, and | ask you which tablet you think would release its 
ingredient faster for more rapid absorption and consequently 
more rapid action? The ten second tablet was Bayer, the other 
was a readily available, but very cheap product whose manufac- 
turer | shall not name. 
| would like to conclude this tirade by stating that there are 
instances where a generic drug will be similar in action toa 
branded drug and that merely the fact that a drug is given a 
brand name does not insure efficacy. Thus, the choice of the 
medication by a doctor should be tempered by his experience 
and his faith in the dispensing pharmacist to carry a reliable line 
of generic drugs, in addition to the ability or desire of the patient 
to receive the best possible medical care. Therefore, the blanket 
statement that a generic prescription will save you money, while 
generally true on a per dose basis, may not be true if it takes more 
of the cheaper medication to cure you. 
As | see it, the solution to the problem at present from the patient's 
viewpoint is twofold. 
First, you must choose a doctor who is not 
an automaton and is thus capable of discussing with you the 
validity of a generic prescription in your specific instance. Secondly, 
you must choose a pharmacy which carries products from reliable 
lines, and not necessarily the cheapest stuff that is available. This 
entails, in most cases, finding a pharmacy where the practice of 
pharmacy is treated as a service, rather than a business. Unfortunately, 
neither is very easy, thus, the problem boils down to caveat emptor. 
| would like to add, as a footnote, that most of us closely associated 
with drugs avoid taking them as much as possible. 
Sincerely, 
Craig K. Lewis 
Nashville, Tenn. 
p. 94 
Suppose you are aware that Meals for Millions no long 
distributes grit-type MPF but, instead, supplies a powdered 
form that is fine as a supplement or additive but useless as 
a basic food by itself. 
True Grit 
There must be a lot of others like me who wish they 
would go back to distributing the grit grind. 
George R. Barton 
San Francisco 
Modern Protein Food 
1800 Olympic Boulevard 
Santa Monica, CA 90404 
p. 100 
| have some information about Barbour Suits (p. 100, Fall ‘69 
WEC). 
| have owned their heavyweight International Suit Jacket 
for 3 years now. 
(It is mostly motorcycle stuff, from my knowledge.) 
It is as waterproof as rubber, but on a hot day only a bit less sweaty 
than rubber. Mine is heavy woven cotton treated with some goo. 
| got an extra can of the goo for renewing the waterproofing when | 
bought the jacket but haven't needed it yet. This goo isn’t sticky or 
anything, but it will rub off lightly on, e.g., another coat which rubs 
it alot. And the jacket will start to have an interesting smell on hot 
days around about the 2nd summer you have it. | prefer the jacket 
to leather for bike riding. The pockets (designed to be worked with 
gloves on), the waterproofing & windproofing, and the protection 
are much better. 
| have dumped while wearing mine and it had no 
permanent scuffs, which leather won't do. 
It is not warm of itself 
as a lined leather jacket is, but | wear a sheepskin vest | made inside 
of it in winter when necessary (they sell one too). A sport coat 
fits comfortably under the jacket, when you have brought it 
properly——! wear mine to work (I teach just now). 
It is the 
standard for touring & general use for serious bike riders in Europe; 
worn for most competition except the road races. 
| have found 
you can wear it into a strange cycle shop (even if you don't ride a 
bike up) and be treated respectfully, even if you look a bit freaky 
otherwise, and I’ve had. shop owners 
(like Moto-Guzzi M7 in 1967) 
apologize for not having bikes available for test driving at the 
moment, but if I’d care to make an appointment... They are 
very well made, and the fittings (brass) are beautiful. They are 
well designed for keeping out the weather, allowing for individual 
adjustment at the openings. 
| wear mine all the time, not just for 
riding, and it is the most comfortable 100% waterproof thing I've 
worn. After I‘ve said all this, | must tell you | haven’t worn the 
pants, however. 
(I guess my enthusiasm is obvious.) 
| would like to suggest: 
“’File Flosophy,’’ a 49 page booklet 
about the different types of files & when and how to use them. 
It’s information has helped me. 
It is FREE from the Nichol- 
~ 
son File Company, Providence, R. 1. (Their files are the best, too.) 
Thomas Reynolds 
Pittsburgh, PA 
* OK 
OX 
On page 100 (69 fall 
issue), you asked for more 
information on Barbour 
all-weather gear. Due to 
my husbands work, we 
have contacts with inter- 
national competitors as 
“well as week-end riders 
and here is what | have 
gleaned from them.—— 
The suits are very well 
constructed (especially 
praised was the double- 
seaming technique). The 
windproofing is excellent. 
So is the waterproofing 
but, the oil-on-material 
method used to achieve 
this has drawbacks. 
It 
comes off on contact—— 
hard on car seats and the 
duds of fellow passengers 
when riding a motorcycle. 
Also, they don’t breath so 
one is wet inside when its dry out and dry inside when its wet ¥ 
out. 
It was agreed that Barbour produces an excellent pro- 
duct but, that it is of very limited use. 
On page 105, J. Baldwin mentions the E300 Honda generator.§ 
We bought one two years ago as a power source for lighting 
our converted school bus. It was in daily use for months on 
end for lights, Skillsaw, even a small iron (the iron caused it 
to labor a bit). It gives excellent performance. The noise 
isn't bad but, causes second thoughts in crowded camp- 
grounds. 
It can be used to recharge a battery and if you have 
one, this is a service you will find yourself performing often, 
for yourself and others, when you live on the road. 
For anyone interested in Indian arts and crafts, you can 
write to Publications, U.S. Dept. of the Interior, Indian 
Arts & Crafts Board, Room 4004, Wash., D.C. 20240, 
for fact sheets. We have fact sheets No. 1 and No. 2. | 
don’t know if there are others. No. 1 lists sources from 
organizations (mostly reservation addresses and products 
available from each). No 2 lists sources from individuals 
(addresses of independent retail shops owened & operated 
by Indian or Eskimo designer-craftsmen and their products. 
If you wish to buy Indian made products you will find 
these fact sheets valuable mail order material. 
Cynthia Barrow 
Schenectady, N. Y. 
3 Creative Playthings? 
p. 102 
No More Innovator 
“Innovator” and “Free Trade” (Page 102) have been 
combined into a new publication called “Efficacy”, 
$2.00 a year, $3.75 for two years, same address. 
Publication has narrowed to pure radical capitalism. 
Donald E. Eastlake 
Brookline, Mass. 
Just a note on one item: 
Creative Playthings charming “Inquarium” 
a 
| made the creative mistake of purchasing it! My description: 
A true departure from conventional crib toys! Live fish swim 
before the infant’s eyes for approx. 24 hours, Introduces him 
to the visual pleasure of watching fish die and floating to the 
top. Heavy vinyl leakproof pouch attaches securely to crib 
and contains iridescent nuggets. Fish not included. (We Vpn 
can’t find any that will live)! 
140z. RE 201 
$3.50 
| wrote “Creative Playthings” and never received one word 
from them. All depends on one’s definition of “‘creative”’ 
| guess! 
Mrs. Thomas M. Dundon ~ 
Trenton, New Jersey 
National Outdoor Leadership School 
An Item | believe you should consider for your catalogis 
the National Outdoor Leadership School located in Lander, 
_ 
Wyoming. 
It is different from the Outward Bound Schools you list 
in your catalog since it teaches skills for living in the 
" 
mountain wilderness rather than using it as an obstacle 
course or training ground. .... 
. it teaches for the environ- 
ment rather than through it. 
While limited to the Wind River Range of Wyoming, NOLS 
provides a better background for those wanting to learn 
; 
about the mountain wilderness than the Colorado or 
Northwest Outward Bound Schools do. | say this from 
<= 
experience, having worked as an instructor at both schools. 
For more information you should write to: 
u 
i 
Mr, Paul Petzoldt, Director 
4 
National Outdoor Leadership School 
lt 
Lander, Wyoming 82520 
: 
ye 
Sincerely, 
Dave H. Williams 
Lake Forest, Illinois 
Dulcimers 
Richard Bryan from Oakland says 
“Henry Steele Dulcimer (in supplement) is a 
piece of shit. 
Made from %’’ plywood, sounds something like 
a banjo & costs $35.00. 
: 
Impossible to tune ‘cause of fret pattern.” 
sounding length of guitar strings if stopped at fourth fret 
7% 
line 
of 
nut 
é 
mas 
P 
chordal dulcimer string length 203° 
