_ for stuff on families other than the Standard American model, 
rr, 
et 
‘ 
if 
~ Gloucester. 
(Beatrix Potter was a terribly cooped-up Victorian clergy- 
man’s daughter who. wrote and illustrated these stories to keep alive; 
late in life she married, happily, and never wrote another line. Women’s 
Lib take note.) 
Maurice Sendak’s Where the Wild Things Are is preferred by the 
Cambridge types. 
Children of the World 
As an old children’s book buff (1 grew up in a family of four kids 
in which we read aloud every evening, and have a heavy-reading 
bunch of four kids myself) | feel moved to respond to your San 
Diego correspondent who in the January issue asks for ‘‘any sort 
of literature for our kids that doesn't constitute total propaganda 
Dr. Seuss, as is well known, writes splendid nonsense; for me, the 
I'm not sure if you can get in the U.S. Tove Jansson’s The Book 
About Moomin, Mymble and Little My, but if you can get it you'll 
be amazed: 
Finnish surrealism. 
_ 
for the establishment set.’’ -First, though, I'd have to say that | 
one which comes off best is Jf J Ran the Circus. 
don’t think it is possible 
to do very well on her specific request 
Pee eee bl deteniaren: 
since the books on “‘other kinds’’ of families (eg Reba Mirsky’s 
All the books by Laura Ingalls Wilder are wonderful. They should 
Thirty-One Brothers and Sisters, Lois Lenski’s stories about Okies 
probably be read more or less in order, not only because they follow 
and such) which are available and often not bad are written by people 
the chronology of her own life (they are autobiography) but because 
who are outsiders to the life they write about and have that flat and 
the scale of vision in each is that of the age level represented. The 
faintly didactic quality which goes with that. There are some auto- 
first one, The Little House in the Big Woods, is in its own way a 
biographies from other cultures which | remember liking (Youel B. 
sort of child’s Whole Earth thing anyhow, full of careful descriptions 
Mirza, Children of the Rooftops, Younghill Kang, The Happy Grove, 
of such things as how to make a smoke house and smoke meat in it 
‘Mme Sugimoto, A Daughter of the Samurai, Camara Laye,. The 
and how to make a wood-and-leather door latch. My favorite of the 
Dark Child, Wright's Black Boy) but none of the ones | think of are 
lot is The Little House on the Prairie; the chapter in that on ‘Indians 
for young children. 
|’d imagine that the main thing she wants and 
Going Away” is for me one of the most perfect pieces of writing in 
what we generally want is something which encourages kids to be 
English for any audience. 
open and to grow into the kinds of grown-ups who can laugh and cry 
at 
2 
2 
and wonder. Now having, as is customary, re-defined the question to 
E. B. White's Charlotte 's Web is a wonderful book about the basic 
suit the answer | have, | will make some suggestions along those lines. 
things——friendship, 
death and birth. 
Just things which come to mind. 
Randall Jarrell’s The Bat Poet is a fine book about being a poet and 
If my list has an idiosyncratic character, so would any child’s. For 
has some great bat poetry; his The Animal Family is also the real 
kids not only have their individual tastes but also use particular books 
stuff. 
for some particular thing in that book which speaks to their particular 
Saint Exupery’s The Little Prince one might think is really for grown- 
condition. One of mine, for example, loved a book by Robert 
ups, but my kids like it. 
McCloskey called Blueberries for Sal which is about a bear mother 
: 
and child and human mother and child getting scrambled and then 
P..S. Beagle, The Last Unicorn. So sad. 
brought back together properly again, and at a time of great stress 
Tolkien, of course. 
(she’d had to have part of a finger sewed back on) had it read over 
and over. She would wake at night crying, and | would hit her with 
the Blueberries for Sal, and she’d go back to sleep comforted. Also, 
kids, like grown-ups, like from time to time to rest or rot their 
minds with trash. 
Three books which we have loved which might not go for kids who 
don’t know New York, are Jean Merrill’s The Pushcart War (guerilla 
warfare against trucks) Doris Plenn’s The Green Song (about being a 
Puerto Rican, in this case a frog, in New York) and George Selden’s 
The Cricket in Times Square (on being alive at all in New York.) 
pre cay same cedestions. 
Two very old-fashioned books which might or might not go for 
First, for pretty young kids: 
some kids in this age are Frances Hodgson Burnett's The Secret 
Garden which is about a couple of terribly neurotic kids growing 
into health by working together to make a garden come back to 
life, and George MacDonald's 
At the Back of the North Wind which 
is a terribly strange book, | guess metaphorically about death. 
Ruth Krauss’ Bears is perfect play, and her book The Big World and 
the Little House is a beautiful statement about being at home in the 
world. 
Antonio Frasconi‘s multi-lingual woodblock picture books See and 
Say and More See and Say are extraordinary, and even nicer is The 
Snow and the Sun. 
Selma Lagerlof’s The Wonderful Adventures of Vils; travelling 
around Scandinavia with a flock of wild geese. 
Some children like fairy stories and some don’t.. Those who do 
The tiny, precise books by Beatrix Potter may seem too old-fashioned 
usually need a big supply; readily available in paper are the red, 
to parents who think of themselves as advanced, but | think should be 
blue, pink etc. fairy books. The stories of Hans Andersen are 
looked at. The best known is of course The Story of Peter Rabbit 
usually listed as fairy stories, but of course they are something 
but some others are more interesting. 
| like especially The Tailor of 
else than ‘tales.’ 
Son of Brown Rice 
?? D. Mayerson Suggests 
SO: 
< 
usar 
| think it would be good for catalog readers to know where 
= 
Equipment: No matter what kind of cooking you do, French 
to buy Koda Brothers brown rice——by far the best grown in $2 
cookware is unsurpassed both from a scientific and aesthetic pt 
the U. S. and costing only $12.20 per hundred pounds. We 
HH 
of view. E.G. Pots are 1/8 in thick copper, tin lined Why: High 
. 
in 
Pie 
ar 
. 
#8 
heat conductivity (little heat wasted in heatting the pot compared 
use only this brand at Tassajara: The only 4 distributors are: 
#2 
to iron, even heating (no burning on the edges like aluminum) 
ss 
Good enthalpy (keeps warm for a while after cooking etc. 
Nomura and Co. 
Erewhon 
2 
Mail sources (sorry these all E. coast) La Cuisiniere, 903 Madison 
429 Beale Street 
342 Newbury Street 
# 
Ave. NY, NY 10021. Bazaar de La Cuisine Inc. 160 E 55th St. 
S.F., Calif. 94105 
Boston, Mass. 02115 
ss 
NY, NY10022; Basar Francais, 666 6th Ave. NY, NY 10010 All 
Mutual Trading Co. 
=e 
= three shops issure free catalogs. 
431 Crocker Street 
8003 Beverly 
Blvd 
#3 Surprised that with your emphasis on self-education, you don’t 
L. A., Calif. 90013 
ros Avaeles: CA 90048 
s: 
have 10 pages on correspondance schools. You learn at your own 
Sol Rabinowitz 
‘ 
#s 
pace, the schools take all the work out of separating the wheat 
P.O. Box 837 
ae 
from the chaff in any field. The teacher knows you by name. 
Venice N. Y..11431 
ss 
‘Etc. A possible good first entry: National Camera Repair Schoo! 
Oe: 
ss ‘2000 W. Union Ave. Englewood Colo80110 Also: 
ICS, Scranton 
Take Care 
ss 
PA 18515 Over 400 courses including a lot on construction which 
5 
ss 
WEC’ers seem to be interested. The accrediting agency of corres- 
Bill Shurtleff 
ts pondance schools is National Home Study Council 1601 18th St 
Zen Mountain Center 
HA 
NW, Washington DC 20009 It issures a free list of accredited 
Carmel Valley, Calif. 
BS SOO eae apc 
D. Mayerson 
é 
Flushing, NY 11355 
Sprouts and Sea Fare 
Cultivation of bean sprouts (those wormy things in chow mein are 
sprouts) is an enjoyable & cheap way to add valuable vitamins and 
minerals to your diet. You can rig up a sprouter yourself with a 
glass dish, rack & towel and sprout beans sold at Health Food 
for M/M Peter Ruppell 
Stores, 
cH 
: 
i 
: 
: 
ss 
Hearst, Ontario 
The best source on sprouting | know is Tested Recipes from El 
rH 
Molino Kitchens——recipe No. 850. |t would be very groovy for 
ss who inquired about making yeast for bread in the Jan. 
kids to get into growing these miniature sprout gardens. They 
Catalog 
can learn about plant growth and at the same time cultivate a 
: 
worthwhile food. I’ve experimented with sprouts and found 
2 oz hops 
(Takes 4 days) Boil hops in the water 
Out at least 2 things: 
1) don’t drown the beans in water. 
4 qts water 
for % hr. Strain & cool to lukewarm. 
2) keep temp constant. 
I’ve lost 2 crops because of cold 
% cup salt 
Place in earthen bowl, add salt & brown 
snaps (my house does not have central heat.) 
6 med. potatoes 
sugar. Mix flour with part of the liquor 
New Cruising Cookbook, by Russel K. Jones and C. McKim 
1 qt flour 
then add the remainder. 
Let this stand 
Norton. W. W. Norton Co., Inc., NYC 1960, $5.95 (list 
% cup brown sugar 
until 3rd day. On 3rd day add potatoes 
which have been boiled & mashed fine. 
Let stand a day, strain & bottle. The mixture should be stirred 
ss 
frequently & kept warm throughout this process. 
price from Sailing Book Service) 
This is a book for sea going nomads who don’t want to learn 
about galleys( sea kitchens) the hard way. 
It’s frustrating to try 
oH 
: 
; 
‘ 
: 
to adapt land cooking techniques to the galley when your ship 
After the fermented mix has been tightly bottled, stored in refrigerator 
is wallowing in heavy seas. 
s= 
or cool place, it will keep about 2 mos. Shake mix before using—— 
2 
J 
5 
. 
‘allow % cup mix for one commercial cake or pkg of yeast. 
This book gives complete information on galleys (stoves-fuels- 
gear), advice on stowage and sample lists of supplies & provisions. 
1 DAY METHOD 
The second part of the book deals with recipes for a 2 burner 
Add 1 qt water to 1 pt hops. Simmer 20 min. Add cornmeal until of 
galley stove, serving 4 people. Recipes are divided into food 
thick mush texture. When cool, work more corn meal in & pat into 
headings (meat, vegetables, eggs). Each recipe includes cooking 
cakes. Dry & store. 
time and complete details. 
These are from Rare Recipes & Budget Savers, a compilation 
| feel this book is necessary to those getting ee with the 
from a Wichita Ks paper column, ‘‘Home Town News.” 
It 
sea going scene because it is important to realize the necessity 
a lot 
of 
funky 
homespun items like Root Beer, Shoo FI 
for good cooking at sea. Cruddy eating habits don’t make it 
: 
has a 
lot 
of 
funky 
ho 
Pp 
” 
: 
y 
Pie, Hand care for cement workers, Curing feathers for hats, 
etc. $1 from Wichita Eagle & Beacon Home Town News, 
825 East Douglas, Wichita, Kansas. 
while cruising. 
It's also important that everyone On board can 
take a turn at cooking. 
It’s a drag being stuck below ina 
galley for an entire cruise. 
|sabel Snizak 
Upper Key Largo, Florida 
Sherry 
Oakland, CA 
Then there ara the Homeric epics. For kids | like best the Giant 
Golden Book of the Iliad and the Odyssey. 
| have burst into tears 
reading aloud the Iliad to a little boy who was mystified (and 
re-reading Simone Weill’s ‘’The Iliad: The Poem of Force’ knew 
why it made me cry.) 
Some really good collections of poetry are: 
Herbert Read’s This 
Way Delight; Dunning (ed) Reflections on a Gift of Watermelon 
Pickle (can be got in paper, but the photographic illustrations are 
so good the hard cover is worth it if you can afford it) and 
C, F. Moule’s Miracles (poems by children.) 
Carl Sandburg’s poems, 
Wind Song can be got in paper. 
Having listed all this fantasy, | would like to cite also one very good 
book about fact: Mary Elting’s The Lollypop Factory and Lots of 
Others which is about industrial organization, written in a nice no- 
nonsense style like those old books by Ilin. There is a Giant Golden 
Encyclopaedia which doesn’t tell you much about anything, but is 
the sort of thing it is fun to browse through. 
I'd also like to list one stunning biography available in paper, which 
| have been giving away to friends of mine: Journey Towards 
Freedom: 
The Story of Sojurner Truth by Jacqueline Bernard. 
\f you are far from libraries or bookstores, Blackwell's in Oxford 
has a splendid children’s book catalog, and the price of books in 
England is so reasonable that even with postage it may be cheaper 
than here; they are very obliging about letting you set up an account 
rather than paying for each order. 
If you write them they will reply 
(or have to me) via a handwritten letter. 
Now for another department. 
If you are going to list books on such 
finicky crafts as macrame, | think you should list Cookies and Breads: 
The Baker’s Art by \|se Johnson and Nika Standen Hazelton, Reinhold 
Publishing Corp., $6.95. Most of it consists of photographs of items 
in an exhibition of ornamental breads and cookies at the Museum of 
Contemporary Crafts, but it also has some how-to directions and we 
went absolutely wild here one Saturday making instant stained-glass 
with cookie dough and pounded-up sourballs. 
| was rendered absolutely euphoric by your review of my book, 
The View from the Barrio, in the fall issue. Such a contrast to the 
American Anthropologist. 
They sort of liked it, but were made very 
uneasy by the lack of footnotes. 
Loyally, 
Lisa R. Peattie 
Newton, Mass. 
About Tea, Coffee, & Spices 
| SUGGEST: 
About Tea, Coffee & Spices by John A. Murchie 
(catalog) 
FREE from: 
Murchie’s 
1008 Robson Street 
Vancouver 105, B.C. 
REVIEW: 
That tea is useful and relevant to education is beyond doubt. 
If 
its good tea. This delightful mail-order catalog list a variety of teas, 
coffees, & spices. 
I’ve been drinking their tea for years and can swear 
to the following: 
IT's quality is better than the ‘‘gift teas’ (Ming, 
Spice Islands, etc.) which come in fancy boxes and run about $5/Ib 
or so. And their prices are better: $2 50/Ib for the highest grade 
of most teas.(plus some postage) Their service is good. Tea arrives 
in Portland in less than a week. 
| haven't tried their coffee or spices. 
It's refreshing to see somebody keep a family tradition (since 1894) 
of quality. 
SHORTER REVIEW: 
Good tea at a good price. Good service. 
In the Name of the Earth 
Peter Dvorak 
Portland, Oregon, 
? Acorn Meal 
* Dear Friends: 
In the seven years we have been running our little commune 
for two here in Geyserville, we have been great friends of 
Gibbon’s Stalking the Wild Asparagus Book 
. .. 
If you have readers who have worked with acorns and have 
made Gibbon’s acorn meal, we have been doing this for four 
years now and have found by experience the following infor- 
mation which could be useful to those just experiencing the 
richness of acorns. The valley oak, or what locals up here in 
Sonoma County call the mush oak (it is large and deciduous), 
produces a much larger acorn than the native’ evergreen oaks, 
is much easier to shell, and contains less acids to leach out. 
We go through one leaching process with the mush oak acorns 
where as the live oak acorns require up to three leaches to 
eliminate the tannic acids, the bitter-ness. We have never 
tried other acorns, and certainly would swap acorns next 
fall with any others you may hear from. 
Thanking you . 
. 
. and with a welcome if 
you ever get up 
to these parts of Sonoma, we send warm 
feelings. 
Love, 
for the Free Underground 
Jim and Bitte Miller 
Geyserville, CA 
