Guitars 
Friends: 
here are a few things you might want to include in your 
catalog: 
, 
C. F. Martin guitars: There are a lot of things to look for in buying a 
guitar. Some, like the feel of the neck, are really subjective and 
individual with different musicians. 
But you also want to know that 
the instrument will last and improve with time and use. This is where 
the Martin company comes in. For a long time, they've been making 
honest, workmanlike guitars. 
I’ve had a D-18 for the last 6 or 7 years 
and it continually amazes me. The tone improves every time | play 
it. Martins are about the best steel-string acoustic guitars made in 
any quantity. They're a joy to play. They're not too good for riding 
freights/bumming because they’re reiatively fragile, but they hold up 
with proper care, for a long time. 
Gibson Electric guitars: 
| don’t dig Gibson acoustics too much—— 
some people find them really durable but | don’t like their tone 
very much. Gibson electrics are another story. 
I've had a Gibson 
ES 335 electric guitar for quite a while. 
It hasa beautiful neck, 
and will do almost anything in terms of tone production that you 
want from it. Things to look for in buying one are: 
1) agood 
neck. Gibsons vary tremendously, so be careful. 
2) “’Hum- 
bucking” pickups are really the best on the market. Gibsons 
last forever. 
Mine's fallen off stages all over the country, & 
it’s still good as new. 
If you buy a Gibson, try for one over 
2 yrs old (pre-1968), otherwise examine the workmanship very 
critically. 
‘ 
V. C. Squier strings: These strings are really hard to find, which 
is a damn shame, because they're the best strings made in the 
U.S. They're smooth to play & will enhance the tone of any 
stringed instrument. 
I’ve only used their guitar strings, but | 
suspect the others they make (violin, etc.) are just as good. Bug 
your music store ‘til they get some in. Here are some kinds they 
make: ES-2500: Tops! these are smooth roundbound strings, 
$5.75 a set (list) & worth it. Also in light gauge, ES-2550. 
They also make nylon wound electric guitar strings, which | 
haven't tried. These could be really beautiful strings (ES—8000) 
V.C. Squier Co. 427 Capital Ave, S.W., Battle Creek, Mich 49016 
Stan & Jane Davis 
_ Denver, Colorado 
Economy Music 
. 
A couple of suggestions: 
41) Re Anonymous’ suggestion (Jan., p. 11) on manipulating the 
Establishment by joining book clubs in order to save money on ~ 
introductory offers. You can also apply this method to record 
clubs; For example, you buy 5 or 10 records for a nominal amount 
and promise to buy an equal number at full price during the next 
year or two. 
If you initially choose expensively priced records 
(e.g., classical), you will ultimately pay about half of list price for 
the total number of records you buy. One problem——it took us 
three months and some heated correspondence to convince Columbia 
Record Club that we were resigning after our initial obligation was 
met. 
2) If you own a tape recorder a cheap way to accumulate a classical 
music library is by taping records from radio broadcasts. When 
recording classical material it helps to know the playing times of the 
compositions you will be taping. A year ago (and we assume at the 
present) there was available a_booklet that lists the playing times of 
most of the major basic works. The Time Table for the Classical 
Repertoire costs 25 cents from Martel Electronics (ATTN: Time 
Table), 2339 S. Cotner Avenue, West Los Angeles, California 90064. 
Peace, 
Art & Becky Henderson 
Norfolk, Virginia 
Steve Schlossman suggests 
Ward’s Scientific—Catalogue, Rochester, N.Y. 
| can’t tell 
you what their doing this year, | haven‘t got mine yet. It 
got all kinds of lapedary equipment, books, rock samples, 
fossils. Really incredible stuff. 
Ray Gfellor, casemaker,| Polson, Montana. Mr.Gfellor makes 
very good leather pouches and case. Most of his equipment 
it designed for geologists, but he lists a number of leather 
pouches that can be carried on a strap over your shoulder. 
His cases are the best I’ve seen. The leather is very heavey 
and everything is riveted. You just look at them to see how 
good they are. They just look it and feel it. 
| ordered a map case which fits on my belt. It carries a 
foldup, pencils and rulers. After juggling everything it 
pack you appreciate it. His prices appear fair: $18.00 for 
the case | just described. 
He has a pamphlet catalogue available from him directly 
(but he’s really slow) or Lemont Scientific, Inc., Pike St., 
Lemont, Pa. 16851 
; 
Steve Schlossman 
14 
Belchertown, Mass. 
J 
OK 
Suggestion and Review of: 
Boynton Studio 
118 Brook Street 
Scarsdale, N. Y. 10583 
: 
914 725 1586 
No list of places to get electronic equipment can possibly be 
complete without Boynton Studio. They specialize in sound 
= 
gear, both new and used, and their prices are often less than 
half of other places’. They publish a monthly listing of the 
stuff they have, and it changes that frequently. Also listed 
— 
are consignments from their subscribers. Everything is sold 
Service, on my $5.00 order, was practically instantanious, 
and they seemed unconcerned that | forgot to allow for the 
2 5% New York sales tax. 
The monthly listing is FREE from Boynton Studio. 
David Lipson 
Monticello, N. Y. 
PROFESSIONAL AND AUDIOPHILE AMPS AND PREAMPS: 
ALTEC 172B amp 
50.00 
ALTEC A-256C 70w. amp 
65.00 
ALTEC 128-A power amp 
80.00 
ALTEC 255-A amp. looks clean, as is 
65.00 
ALTEC 260-A 260 watt PA or 
recording amp. Like New 1125.00 495.00 
CINEMA LOW VOLTAGE 
POWER SUPPLY 
25.00 
3 
COLLINS 212Y Remote amp 
ss 
+ COLLINS 60 mixer 
HH 
(for 2 lines) 
125.00 
ss 
COLLINS 212Y remote amp only 
75.00 
as 
COLLINS Single Channel remote amp, 
: 
battery 097-4143-00 
60.00 
etc., etc., etc. 
Bird Houses 
A very charming little catalog of bird houses & feeding 
stations is available free from J. P. Barrett, 921 East 
Central Avenue, Ponca City, Oklahoma. Prices range 
from $3.00 for the Gable Roof Wren House, to $60 
for the “beautiful 24-room home for purple martins.”” 
[Suggested by Donald B. Miller] 
Return of Hong Kong 
Dear Whole Earth Catalogue— 
Universal Suppliers is a mail-order house in Hong Kong 
with excellent (% price) deals on Nikons, Leicas, Pen- 
taxes etc etc. (I just got a Pentax spotmatic from them 
for $139—speedy delivery, friendly letters)——also tele- 
scopes, ivory goodies, clothes, most everything | think. 
You might write them for a catalogue— 
G. P.O. Box 14803 
Hong Kong 
Anne 
Canyon, CA 
# 
Chemicals 
HH 
Chemicals for the small laboratory 
H 
Hy-Labs Co. 
: 
P. O. Box 8652 
3 
Main Post Office 
Chicago, |||. 60680 
No C.O.D. Orders 
Alan Kalker 
“satisfaction guaranteed,’’ with a ten-day, money-back policy 
Love & hugs & peace & praise 
be 
at tl 
Knives and Pipes 
. 
This letter is in reply to your card of February 3. | wrote . 
to you about listing my handmade knives in the Whole Earth 
| 
Catalog. 
“s 
_ | must explain further about myself. My main occupation is. 
the smoking pipe business. About two years ago | began 
carving wood and making pipes. | found that the pipe ind- 
ustry was completely mechanized. | have gone back to 
making pipes completely by hand, the way it was done in 
Europe before 1920. When | started there were no tools on 
the market for this type of work, so | began to make my own. 
My knife making is basically concerned with specialized wood 
carving knives, but | can make almost any size or shape blade 
and handle to match. Many of my knives are also used by 
leather workers. | use the best steel for the blades and the 
‘ 
handles are laminated leather. When | sell a knife the handles 
are left unshaped, so that the buyer can carve it to fithis 
— 
= hand. The blades are also left in a state of near-completion, 
because each man shapes his knife differently. The knives 
¥ 
: 
are complete, they, just need to be shaped and sharpened. 
= This makes each knife personal for the buyer. 
= As| said before, my pipe business is my main work. | have 
sold several to large pipe stores in New York City. These 
pipes are completely hand cut and finished. This makes each 
33 one different and distinctive. In this way, | can fill any 
order, any shape, size or style. 
Dennis F. Foreman 
Brooklyn, New York 
“e 
Custom-made knives and hand tools made to order: 
Blades used are 
finest steel for long edge life. Good for wood or leather. Knives 
come assembled. Write for brochure. Dennis F. Foreman, 155 Ave- 
nue U, Brooklyn, N. Y. 11223. 
: 
; 
Design your own pipe. You can now have any shape or style pipe. 
My brochure will explain in full detail how to design your own 
pipe. Ail pipes completely hand cut and finished! Only finest 
: 
aged briar used. Prices start at $10.00. Dennis F. Foreman, 
a 
155 Avenue U, Brooklyn, N. Y. 11223. Send for brochure. 
. 
_ Cabin House Project 
Enclosed is a review of the “Cabin House Project” which! 
— 
saw when | visited Goteborg this summer. The inventor is 
as interesting as the device he invented: he worked his life 
as a minor clerk in the shipping firm at Goteborg. When he — 
retired, however, he began thinking up little things. A bent 
wire toilet-paper holder or napkin holder has already sold: 
aaee 
millions because its simple design interested both the manu- ote 
facturers and the buyers. 
nan 
The “Cabin House Project” is a pre-fabricated, semi-permanent cabi 
large enough to house six or eight men (15’9" x 8'1 1’’) which is also ~ 
light enough to be transported easily to its site. 
It comes packed in — 
two boxes with a total weight of 263 pounds and takes up about44 
— 
cubic feet. 
It can be erected in less than an hour by two men. And 
this is accomplished with remarkably little hardware: 
the whole 
thing is put together with 140 screws. 
‘ 
These ‘‘quick-lock screws” are the heart of the ‘Cabin House Project.” 
They are simply two lengths of threaded screw joined to a fitting 
, 
for the locking wrench. By sliding the screw between the two pieces — 
of construction board to be butted against each other, and by turning 
the screw half a turn, the two pieces are joined. The structure is then 
very stable. These screws can also be removed and used again when ~ 
the cabin is taken down. The boards are a little chewed up by the 
screws, but the integrity of the joint is maintained by moving the 
screw an inch or so along the board each time it is put in. 
— 
A 
The minimum life-expectancy of the cabin is conservatively estimated 
— 
at 2% years. 
In actual practice, it lasts much longer. The roof isa 
e 
: 
sheet of plastic and the walls fiber-board. These require little main- 
tenance. 
F 
Because it is especially useful as an emergency shelter, the Red Cross am ‘ 
has begun testing these cabins in the field. But the “Cabin House 
Project’ is only one application of the ingenious little ‘’quick-lock 
screws.”” 
| have seen working models of boats and platforms built 
upon the same principle. 
; 
i 
i 
Cabin House Project 
c/o AB Gotaverken 
Goteborg, Sweden. 
Robert N. Ross 
wie 
Philadelphia, PA 
; 
For more information, write to: 
