&. . Heat Circulating Fireplace 
The fireplace item is one of 5 final chapters that 
- Iam.adding to my book. I reprint & distribute to 
all my book owners. 
This fireplace material rep- 
resents YEARS of thought and experimentation , 
on the subject of wood heat. I would be happy to 
see it widely read. 
a 
i 
Ken Kern 
“saga 
Oakhurst, CA 
st 
For the past dozen years | have participated directly as architect and 
- 
mason in the design and construction problems of an extremely 
efficient, good-looking, highly functional, and inexpensive fireplace 
” for Sierra-foothill living conditions. Chapter 9, volume one of my 
book, The Owner Built Home, was written before | had sufficient 
opportunity to delve into the many ramifications of fireplace con- 
‘struction——theory and practice. In this supplement to Chapter 9 
| intend to review the principles of good fireplace design, and add 
some new, important information on the science of combustion 
~ “and heat-exchange. | will also tell how an owner-builder can build 
an improved fireplace for a fraction the cost of conventional, less 
efficient types. 
Before one can design a satisfactory fireplace he must understand 
i the process of fireplace combustion. When smoke and soot are 
_ 
observed coming out of a chimney, you can be certain that com- 
bustion is incomplete. What you actually see are small quantities 
of hydrocarbons and free carbon (soot) that are not burned. Thus, 
much of the heating capacity of the wood-fuel is lost. The heat 
loss is twofold: 
in the hot gases that escape up the flue; and in the 
unburned combustible particles. The first principle of fireplace 
design, then, is to aim at complete combustion. 
-Air-intake control is the key to efficient fireplace combustion. The 
‘ignition of a correctly proportioned gas-air mixture will give a com- 
plete combustion of the wood and emit gases containing only the 
non-combustible carbon dioxide, water vapor, oxygen, and nitro- 
Wood has:a very high oxygen content, so it naturally requires a very 
small amount of air for combustion. This explains why wet (green) 
ae 
| 
ay 
4 
ae 
~ wood has less heating efficiency than well-dried wood, The point 
of combustion of wet wood can be lowered only by increasing the 
excess draft. A high moisture content (freshly felled wood contains 
50% water) interferes with the combustion process. Evaporating 
water forms around the wood like a sheath of vapor and blocks the 
entry of oxygen, thereby lowering ignition and combustion rates. 
a If you must burn‘wet wood you will need plenty of draft. But for 
proper dry wood the draft must be controlled. This will now be 
explained. 
A fite’ ina fireplace involves: 
(1) the motion of air toward the 
fire; (2) its passage through and over the fuel-bed; (3) its admixture 
with combustion products; and finally, the flow of the mixture up 
the flue.» 
(1) the required air-volume-flow toward the fire for the average 
_ fireplace-opening is about 3000 cubic feet per hour——which amounts 
_ to about four complete air-changes per hour in an average size living 
room. Now, the amount of fresh air required for proper ventilating 
‘ _ bya family of four has been established at about 1400 cubic feet 
per hour. Thus, a standard fireplace will cause the displacement of 
over twice the amount of room-air required for optimum ventilation. 
Hence half the amount of air needed for the fire should be drawn 
bs directly from outside the room, and not be permitted to pass 
~ through the room to the fireplace. 
te 7 
This is even more needed where fireplaces are installed in our 
modern, tightly-constructed, efficiently weather-stripped houses: 
the amount of air available for supplying the chimney draft is 
insufficient! A partial vacuum results, which tends to pull smoke 
and combustion gases back into the room. 
] 
Moreover, lack of draft from outside the room causes foot-chilling 
drafts inside. A dub-floor inlet for pre-heated new air will mini- 
mize the cold air currents within the room. Combustion efficiency 
is also increased, since the incoming draft consists of pre-heated air. 
This is best achieved by providing a secondary air supply duct, 
which passes under the firebed with exit at the grate. 
- On the subject of foot-chilling drafts, an owner-builder should cer- 
_ tainly consider the many advantages of a sunken hearth. The 12- 
inch high raised hearth commonly built nowdays puts the heat 
_ radiation level just that much higher off the floor. A 12-inch 
sunken hearth puts the heat radiation at floor level——where it is 
ost needed. There are other advantages to a sunken hearth: 
the hearth makes a neat seating alcove; a higher flue is achieved; 
there is less danger of flying sparks as the trajectory of a spark is 
co siderably less distant than from a raised level. 
(2) A-properly designed grate is critical to the second consideration 
--—thi Passage of air through and over the fuel-bed. A grate is 
used to raise the firebed a few inches above the hearth. It should 
be relatively small, as it is important that the wood charcoal 
which forms during combustion cover the grate completely. 
If 
|} 
_ the grate is too big, so that too much wood is burned, the temper- 
ature of the gases escaping through the flue will be too high, 
which will entail heavy losses in heat. On the other hand too 
small.a grate causes draft trouble and consequent incomplete 
ombustion with the added risk of tar deposits in the chimney. 
(3) We come, thirdly, to the admixture of ventilating currents 
ith 
combustion products. The inside fireplace proportions are 
important here. Deep fuel-beds (long from front to back) 
luce more smoke than shallow beds, since there is scant com- 
bustion-air at the back of the grate. Experience proves that the 
of smoke emission increases proportionally with the depth of 
the 
firebox, especially in the early stages of firing. It is also appar- 
hat radiation is more effective with a shallow grate; with a 
d 
grate radiation is mostly upward. An inclined fireback, 
ng forward as it goes up, also contributes to increased radiation, 
Process 
The throat-opening should be sufficiently small to constrain the 
effluent to pass at a speed high enough to discourage down-drafts. 
\f the chimney throat is too large, then some cool air that does not 
affect ignition or combustion will be drawn over the fire. This 
naturally results in an increase of smoke-emission. 
(4) ‘The final aspect of a fireplace, the flow of gases up the flue, 
involves the chimney itself. A chimney performs a dual function: 
production of drafts; and elimination of combustional residues. 
The chimney should be designed so that the draft is adequate to 
deliver just enough air for complete combustion within the fire- 
box. Flue size should be minimal, and the flue should be well 
insulated so that its temperature at the top is not much lower 
than at the bottom. 
Insulation material between the flue-lining and surrounding masonry 
construction improves draft. Masonry itself is very poor insulation 
ordinarily. 
For efficiency, the fireplace should be located on an inside wall of 
_ the house. An outside chimney, exposed to the weather on one or 
more sides is bound to cool off when the fire is low. Then when the 
fire is kindled again, the products of combustion have to force their 
way out of achimney filled with dense, cold gases. Moreover, the 
heat that does escape from an inside chimney is useful because it 
helps to warm the house. 
To sum up: Part of the air moving toward the fire should come 
from outside the room: There should be a grate. The grate should 
be small, the fuel-bed shallow, the throat and flue narrow, and the 
flue insulated. A round flue is best. 
OWNER BUILT DESIGN 
Sheet iron is 12-times as conductive as stone masonry. A metal- 
jacketed heat chamber will therefore emit quantities of conduc- 
tive heat that would be otherwise lost through absorption in the 
masonry or.lost to the atmosphere via the chimney. Patented 
metal fireplace units can be bought for about $80. A compar- 
able, but simpler and easy-to-build unit can be fabricated in the 
home-workshop for about $10 worth of materials. The fire- 
place unit design that | am presenting below is the result of 
improvement made over a number of years. 
It represents the 
best in fireplace research thinking, and is designed to give maximum 
heating efficiency. 
|t really works! 
\"FIBERGLAS 
INSULATION 
CONVECTE 
AiR OUTLET 
/ 
MASONRY 
WALL 
i, FlooR 
SY 
PRIMARY 
AiR 
SPVOPLY 
i 
SECONvaRY 
AIR 
suPPLY 
—-—> 
_,3”9' 10Ga. sheet iron 
curovtT & wed 
To Smeke SHELF 
"3 
SmotE SHELF 
, 
| Ve 
i 
66" 
~~!iHEAT JACKET PATTERN 
The metal chamber itself is cut, bent, and welded out of a single 
3-foot by 9-foot piece of sheet iron. A damper is welded to a 
pair of hinges which is in turn welded to the smoke shelf. A 
cool-air supply-duct should be provided at the front lower sides 
or rear lower back of the fireplace; the warm-air outlet is best 
provided along the upper front of the fireplace. Outlet ducts 
can also be placed in adjacent rooms when a forced air circulation 
fan system is employed to distribute the hot air. The heat from a 
single fireplace can very well be used to heat other rooms in the 
house. Ducts may be provided in the floor slab, or in the attic 
space, for a forced-air fan-system to distribute the heat through 
controlled outlet grills. 
A neat arrangement, if the fireplace is not the only source of heat, 
is to incorporate the regular forced-air heating system with the 
fireplace unit. 
In this instance, the fireplace hot-air jacket-chamber 
acts as a plenum, and furnace heat is distributed through the 
fireplace unit. A separate fan-control switch is provided so that 
the furnace blower can be used to distribute fireplace heat without 
the furnace proper. The fireplace can be used separately; the 
furnace can be used separately; or both units can operate simul- 
taneously. 
If an owner-builder really expects to take his fireplace heating 
system seriously——and desires more than room ““atmosphere”’ 
from wood-heat——then he should consider the above design 
features. 
CROSS 
DRAFT-CONTROL MECHANISM secrion 
FIXED-SCREEN.- 
5 
CONSTANT CURTAIN! 
6 
OF AIR To Keep 
SMOKE BACK 
ADJUSTABLE DRAFT CONTROL 
OPEN WHEN STARTING FIRE 
“| PRE-HEAT Ata 
circutar— 
ING UNDER Pike pox: 
A\R FROM OUTSIDE 
OR BASEMENT- 
CRAWL SPACE 
BLOWER EQUIPPED with 
SUMMER SwWitcn” To CIRCULATE 
FIREPLACE HEAT INDEPENDENT. 
OF FURNACE cy 
: 
PIRE PLACE FLUE 
1O"METAL DucTS 
FRONT 
VIEW 
FIREPLACE 
Hot 
ALR CHAMBER 
FUNCTIONS 
AS 
FURNACE 
HEAT 
PLENUM 
HoT AIR 
Floog 
FIREPLACE 
REGISTER —. 
OPENING 
COOL 
AIR 
RETURN 
WOOLMAN SCHOOL SOGIAL-HALL peng Been 
DESIGNED $ 
BUILT BY AUTHOR, 
lech Flue TetteR 
gt E 
4x Xstreet 
RWe 
12" LoweReD 
HEARTH 
24” FooTING 
