The Rise of the West 
The Rise of the West: A History of the Human Community 
by W. H. McNeill. $1.65. A Mentor Book: The New! 
American Library Inc., 1301 Avenue of the Americas, 
New York, N. Y. 10019 
Review: 
It’s a rare book that treats our species 1) comprehensively 
and 2) asa continuum. McNeill’s concern is with all the 
doings of human society from 4000 B.C. to the present. 
Everything that is known about the causes, dynamics, and 
outcomes of the sequence of cultures is here, coherant and 
lucid. 
The sub-title describes the book more accurately than the 
title, since McNeill is not solely interested in the West. The 
accounts of Indian and Chinese civilization are full. However, 
the book is weak on African and Amerindian cultures. 
Everything you might want to know about how NATO 
culture got to the top of the heap, and what preceeding 
cultures were like, is here for the reading. History as an 
extra-terrestrial observer might write it, if he had a good 
command of the language. 
Thus larger populations, will all the possibilities of specialization 
and social differentiation which numbers permit, could only be 
sustained by human communities that found ways of escaping 
from the natural limits imposed by their predatory past. This 
({farming] constituted perhaps the most basic of all human 
revolutions. 
... 
The costs were real, however; for the tedious 
labor of tilling the fields was a poor substitute for the fierce 
joys, sharp exertions, and instinctive satisfactions of the hunt. 
° 
Civilizations may be likened to mountain ranges, rising through 
aeons of geologic time, only to have the forces of erosion slowly 
.but ineluctably nibble them down to the level of their surroundings. 
r) 
Save in a loose and metaphorical sense, the people never really 
controlled “‘their’’ government in the United States or anywhere 
else, despite the fact that in the days of Jefferson and Jackson, 
official powers and duties were restricted and the recognized 
political alternatives were narrowly defined by nineteenth-century 
* liberal principles. 
Jib Fowles 
New York, N. Y. 
Chemical Abstracts 
The Chemical Abstracts: world’s best technological index 
and abstracting service. Very comprehensive. 
\f other 
fields did this, you could find anything. See a good library. 
Laurence Istas 
Seattle, Wash. 
A=90° 
VERTICES — 6 
EDGES — 12 
DOUBLE CUBE 
FACES 
© Figure 18. 
Double cube geometry. A variety of 
packing formations is possible with this cell. Any 
deviation from the symmetry of the cube pro- 
gressively loses space enclosing efficiency. Thus 
it con be seen that two-story “cubical” houses 
are more economical shelters than the ranch- 
type house of the some interior volume. 
Space Enclosure Systems 
Space Enclosure Systems, by Donald G. Wood. 
$3.50. from University Publications Sales Office, 
Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210 
Review: 
subtitled “identification and documentation of cell geom- 
etries’’, wood’s book presents both tabulated and graphic 
analysis of twenty-three volumetric geometrical forms, or, 
as he’ more effectively describes them, “space enclosure 
systems”. the result is a beautiful, clear cut little TOOL 
that can liberate the designer, architect, educator, sculptor, 
mathematician, and ambitious spirit. 
wood has taken this presentation just far enough. his infor- 
mation is formal, clear, simple, good and useful. what 
stimulates appreciation for what he has presented is what 
he has omitted. the book is void of the cliche “author's 
sketches” of possible futuristic applications that too often 
infringe or undermine the user’s imaginative potential. wood 
allow’s the application of his data to be the reader/user’s 
choice and opportunity. 
thomas casey 
Austin, Texas 
Psionics 
Psionics deals in meditation machines, this is my phrase not theirs. 
ETC or Electronic Techniques for Centering, models |, II, and III, 
are their current products. Several explanatory references are 
“Conscious Control of Brainwaves” in the April ‘68 Psychology 
Today and the last three chapters of Altered States of Conscious- 
ness edited by Charles Tart. 
Essentially, ETC isa self-instructional tool-technique for the attain- 
ment of expanded states of conscicusness. With ETC one may learn 
the sustained alpha state. 
| have been using ETC for several months 
and have not yet begun to tap its potential. 
ETC | changes the received brainwaves into a continually audible 
tone. With practice one may change this tone from the normally 
irregular, low volume tone to a high volume, even-toned signal so 
it acts as an electronic mantra. 
Don’t let the machinery fool you 
though, it merely acts as a translator; you do the work. 
ETC II includes the features of ETC | and in addition has an audible 
tone which is relay-actuated by the sustained alpha state. This 
state is exhibited by zen monks and yogis while meditating. 
ETC III with all the features of models | and I/ also has a tape player 
and other features. As one successfully attains the alpha state, a 
preselected tape is heard. Much more pleasant to use. 
Psionics doesn’t require but strongly recommends that models II 
and |1! be purchased following an interview or comprehensive 
correspondence. ETC | is readily available——price $150.00. ETC II 
is $150.00. ETC III is semi-indeterminately priced at $500.00. 
Batteries not included. Allow four weeks for delivery. Write to or 
order from: 
Psionics, P.O. Box 1919, Boulder, Colorado 80302. 
Bob Hamilton 
Nederland, Colo. 
The Hubble Atlas of Galaxies 
This book is a series of superb photographs which is the definition 
of Edwin Hubble's classification of galaxies. Galaxies come ina 
variety of shapes from round blurry ones through the familiar 
spiral in Andromeda to fantastic blazing pinwheels like M101. 
Hubble has lined them up in a sequence according to shape. The 
meaning of this sequence has not yet been determined. 
It may 
indicate a series of stages in the life on one galaxy which progresses 
from blurred youngster to majestic spiral or vice versa. More 
likely vice versa, since the spirals contain hot young blue stars 
which we know will burn out in a few million years or so, while 
the blurry ones contain many ancient red giants. It is also possible 
that the sequence is not an age sequence at all, but merely reflects 
conditions at that place in the universe when that galaxy was 
formed. 
= 
But besides being a tool for scientists, this book is like a guided 
tour through our own miraculous universe. When this planet 
gets you down, leaf through the Atias and feast your spirit on 
galaxy after galaxy, as beautiful and varied as snow flakes. Some 
galaxies are so far away that the graininess of the photograph 
shows in the blow up. Some photographs show small blurred 
objects in the background which you suddenly realize are more 
galaxies. 
My own reaction to this book is not to feel lost or insignificant, 
but instead to feel immensely grateful to be able to inhabit such 
a universe, and to agree with Fred Hogle that every time we find 
out more about this universe it turns out to be richer and more 
complex and more beautiful than we could ever have thought up 
ourselves. 
: 
The price is a mere $10. | think this includes postage unless you 
are in a hurry in which case they will send it airmail for $2.50 
more. From the Carnegie Institute, Washington, D.C. 
jenny deupree 
Davis, CA 
Stephan Chodorov Suggests 
The Hallucinogens (By A. Hoffer and H. Osmond. Academic 
Press, 111 Fifth Avenue, New York City). 
You wouldn't nose out onto the freeway if you didn’t know how 
to drive, and you damn well shouldn't go playing ‘‘eat me”’ and 
“drink me” unless you know. what you're about. Here, in a book 
ostensibly for the medical profession, is the whole story to date. 
Hoffer and Osmond Know more about this field than anyone else 
in the world, and their aim is to investigate it further. Osmond is 
one of the unsung sages of our times, working quietly in his own 
way to find out the nature of human nature. 
(He is a leading 
researcher into schizophrenia, the coiner of the word “‘psychedelic’’, 
the doctor who gave Huxley his mescalin, and is into a hundred 
other interesting things, including the reliability of the Jungian 
personality types. There are at least a few pages on every hallucin- 
ogen you've ever heard of, and ona lot you haven't; eg: the “dream 
fish’ kyphosus fuscus, and the plants the ancient Norse used to 
induce the state of ‘’berserk’’ (and why it became, among them- 
selves, illegal.) Where previous experimenters have used themselves 
as guinea-pigs, their diaries are reprinted, eg.: Wasson’s trips with 
psilocyba mushrooms. 
|n most cases, Osmond has tried the stuff 
himself; and he is a very patient, understanding and aware guinea- 
pig indeed. For people who remember their college chemistry, 
the molecular diagrams are here, for people who want to read 
more an exhaustive index shows you the way. This is a source 
book of knowledge, but by the by Osmond has two main obser- 
vations of a philosophical nature: 
1) man has been looking for 
hallucinogens from the beginning, and has been finding them, 
and 2) you don’t get something for nothing. You can believe 
this man; he has smoked with the best of them, and popped things 
into his mouth that haven't been tried in a few centuries. 
Warning: 
not reading this book may be injurious to your health. 
Living the Good Life (By Scott Nearing and Helen Nearing. 
Social Science Institute, Harborside, Maine. $5) 
Some decades ago Scott Nearing gave up as an academic and retreated 
to the Vermont woods, where he promptly began to rediscover for 
himself how to stay alive in the North Temperate Zone. His advice 
is in this book. He invented’a method for building stone houses 
very cheaply, he perfected a way of living into the winter on crops 
taken in the summer from ingeniously constructed gardens, and he 
relied——perhaps more than anyone today will care to rely-—on a 
division of his labors between the hands and the head. He was a one: 
man community. He never wasted anything (it will drive you mad 
to hear his paeans of praise for used motor oil), he tried to ignore 
machines wherever possible, he tried to live on a cash-less basis 
(and largely succeeded), and he annoyed his old-timey Vermont 
neighbors by living in a more down-to-earth life than they ever 
ARP Synthesizer 
A fresh approach has been taken in the design of the ARP 
synthesizer, and it incorporates many unique features which 
enhance its power as. an educational and music composition 
tool. 
} 
The price range will fall between about $3500. and $9500. 
depending upon the choice and configuration of functional 
modules. 
; 
We expect to be in full production by mid summer with 
- 
several custom systems being sold prior to that time. 
Information from Tonus, Inc., 45 Kenneth Street, 
Newton Highlands, Mass. 02161. 
Tonus, Inc. is pleased to announce the development of the new ARP 
Synthesizer, an evolutionary milestone in equipment for the synthesis" 
and performance of electronic music. The ARP is the first true 
“Second Generation’ synthesizer incorporating all of the separate 
advances in synthesizer design of the last five years as well as many 
important innovations. The ARP Synthesizer is designed as a no- 
compromise, state-of-the-art system to insure quality consistent 
with the demands of the most discriminating composers and 
performers. 
In approaching the design of a new Electronic Music Synthesizer, 
the twin objectives of improved performance and greater control 
flexibility have been stressed. Unique, proprietary circuits and 
extensive use of digital and linear 1.C.'s have been combined to 
produce laboratory quality modules. Both stability and control 
range have been vastly improved over earlier systems of other makes. ; 
Science & Sanity 
.S 
Science & Sanity—an Introduction to Non-Aristotelian Systems and 
General Semantics, by Alfred Korzybski. $12.00 from The Institute 
of General Semantics, Lakeville, Conn. 
: 
s. rs 
Korzybski aims to help you train yourself in new semantic reactions: 
literally to get your head——and your whole nervous system—— 
together. All too often we think and speak in ways that are struc- 
turally false to the events we are trying to describe, analyse, and 
deal with, ways that are harmful to our ability to function seman- 
tically. We use artificial aristotelian divisions such as body vs mind, 
objective vs subjective, and ignore half a century’s work in physics 
by operating on Newtonian assumptions. 
Korzybski concieves all knowledge in terms of the functional structure 
— 
of your nervous system, and he explores the consequences of this 
: 
idea in Physics, Math, Chemistry, Neurology, ‘’Psychology” and 
Education. Synthesis of this approach with newer ecological” 
studies should provide a real start toward a gestalt understanding 
of the universe. 
a 
Bs 
~ 
“* 
vey) 
ie oa 
<7 
C. Baird Brown 
Keene Valley, N. Y- 
aoncuescssepenened! 
auoeneen 
eusaesensssae 
ie 
ina 
ea 
could and showing them how to maple-sugar and farm. He beat 
them at their own game, and for thirty years it lasted——until the 
ski crowds began to turn-utopia into suburbia. Nearing fled to 
Maine where, presumably, he’s started all over again. Lots of 
savvy advice in here, and a good picture of how it works in practice — 
to turn your back on advantages that you know are right out there — 
waiting for you. Nutrition freaks will find the Nearing diet 
anew 
© 
challenge. Nearing.is no spring chicken, and so if nothing else this 
book will shame you into getting up and getting moving. 
ETS. E. DEH!ILLERIN. There are kitchen-equipment freaks, just 
ns 
as there are stationery freaks, and we should indulge them. Dehillerin 
— 
indulges them beautifully (and, by the time you finish paying the — 
freight, expensively). But write to 18 Rue Coquilliere, Paris, and 
i 
see what happens. Sieves, grinders, broilers, boilers, whisks, spatulas, — 
4 
deep pots, shallow pots——anything you have ever wanted is there. 
They'll send out a kind of packet of loose pictures that looks like | 
a child’s alphabet primer. 
a 
GOLDSMITH BROTHERS. For stationery freaks, and anyone who 
needs exactly that certain file-divider or paper-fastener comes the 
greatest name in the east: Goldsmith Brothers. Free catalogue on _ 
F 
request, and they willsship. 77 Nassau Street, New York City 10008. 
PURPLE MARTIN CAPITAL NEWS. The camp gift subscription. 
A monthly tabloid newspaper about the purple Martin, its bug- 
eating proclivities and general all-around usefulness. Published 
all the heart in the world by the Griggsville (INinois) Wild Bird 
Society. 
If you have a soft spot in your-head for the Martin, you 
can’t be without this. Actually, since it’s ecology-minded andon 
the side of furry creatures, it is Good, and you won't feel silly 
a, rm. 
sending them 25¢ for a sample copy. But you might feel silly © 
ee) 
getting it every month and they won't, probably, send it in a plain 
= 
paper wrapper. 
ae 
Psychological Exercises (By A. R. Orage. Recently reprinted but 
English edition available, too.) 
: 
Orage, who edited ‘‘New Age 
x 
with 
ip’ 
=~ 
jn the ‘thirties, knew everyone. His 
favorites, like Pound, Gurdjieff and Ouspensky, were certainly 
Y 
worth knowing. Those were the days when intellectuals thought 
= 
they could change the world just by pointing out what was right 
, 
and what was wrong. Hah! Anyway, Orage had a secret kick, too, — 
and it was exercising the grey matter. For example: while reciting 
© 
"Jack and Jill’ write down ‘‘Mary Had a Little Lamb’’. For 
ij 
example: while you are talking to someone, 
or reading this, count © i] 
from 100 to 0 backwards by three’s. You'll find that with some = 
practice you really can do these things, just like learningto pat 
your stomach while rubbing your head. And then were are you? 
Fun. 
* 
- 
Yours truly, 
‘ 
: 
: 
Stephan Chodorov 
x 
New Milford, Conn. 
