Underground, Overground 
“Every country is accessible to a wise man, 
and a good soul’s fatherland is 
the whole earth.” 
(Democritus of Abdera) 
FROM THE EDITOR... 
Almost in the time since the first edition of Muir and Friends, . 
The conservation scene is getting weird in a lot of ways. 
Lot of ferment out there. And no little confusion. The 
scene is divided into at least two elements, underground 
and overground. Overground is conventional, traditional, 
shall we say ‘‘conservative” conservationists? Under- 
ground is far-out, tending to radical. But how do these 
elements themselves divide? It might be worthwhile to 
hold up a mirror to our own nature and draw a Conser- 
vation Family Tree. Out of Sierra Club, by Friends of 
the Earth, behold: what? Too early to tell, probably. 
But there are clues. The most interesting area in con- 
servation is that delicate point where underground and 
overground meet. Now there’s a junction worth hanging 
around the service station at. Freaks come from the left, 
carrying hand grenades. But they tend to blow them- 
selves up, as well as the service station. Ladies and 
gentlemen come from the right, carrying tea and cookies. 
But they tend to bore themselves to death. But here 
comes more freaks from the left, and what they’re 
carrying is beautiful ideas. And here comes more 
ladies and gentlemen from the right, carrying lots of 
money. And what they do at the junction is flat out 
get married, and split in all directions, planting trees 
on the honeymoon. The 1970's 
will be an interesting 
decade. 
Some friends & | were out in the woods near Big Basin the 
other day and we started picking up the garbage till we had 
a trunkful and we thought what a great idea it would be if 
instead of painting eggs at Easter most of which go to waste 
anyway if every youngster or oldster or whatever were to go 
to the wildwoods if they can find any and hunt for beer cans 
instead of Easter eggs this coming Easter 
Like some of these 
old rituals can be converted to more useful purpose: on 
Halloween once | remember collecting pennies for the U.N. 
or some worthy cause instead of candy, it would be the same 
thing and who knows the whole earth might come clean if 
you made a game of it. 
Some of these cans have been there for more years than | 
have, and it is exciting to find them and to throw them in 
a bag and see what the woods look like without them. 
| don’t even know when Easter is, but it’s coming up. 
| figured you’d be the one to publicize the idea if anyone 
(And for that matter why couldn’t the state (The 
State) pay a few hundred people who really dig tramping 
the woods say $20 a day plus expenses to go around picking 
could. 
. conversations. This interest came just in time: 
last week, con- 
servation groups, including FOE and with Sierra Club leadership 
brilliant, banded together to defeat the National Timber Supply 
Act that threatened to destroy all remaining opportunities to 
designate wilderness in the National Forests. A year ago that 
legislation might have breezed through the Congress virtually 
unchallenged. Not now. 
Foreclosing on wilderness was no way 
to begin the Decade of Environmental Concern, and the public 
rest of this session of Congress. 
lan Ballantine, with whom’we are publishing paperbacks, points 
out, however, that ‘‘The banalization of the decade of ecological 
concern is already in progress. Many industrialists, advertising 
agency people, and media people are expecting or hoping that 
the concern will pass quietly. Wrongheaded recommendations 
could hurt the cause, There is need to concentrate on specific 
things——on the kinds of behavior and on the kinds of products 
that are considerate of the environment.” 
~ 
from: Muir and Friends, published at intervals by Friends of 
the Earth and John Muir Institute, 451 Pacific, San Francisco, 
up trash? That would be a vocation one could be proud of. 
If you need more ideas or a man to work at any wholesome 
job, 
ecology has become topic number one in the media and in private 
Sa
a 
let the Congress know. Full-scale industry support and an Admin- 
istration blessing were fortunately overcome——probably for the 
Ce
Da 
seein
did
attili
cpt 
California 94133; or 30 East 42nd Street, New York, N. Y. 10017. 
a 
Olle.
wide
herd
{ remain, 
a 
yrs 
Neighborhoods, Arise! 
: 
Walter Martin 
‘ 
c/o 1650 Waverly 
The thing people are starting to recognize about garbage is 
:
Palo Alto, CA 
that it’s valuable. Old newspapers are worth about $8. 00a 
a 
Ree 
eee eee eee 
eee eee e eee ec cestsncansnaceucsescaassasscsussneasesncaansaavecseceseanessasnesneneasesseaneecnsess 
cans*are also worth money. Ecology Action in Palo Alto, 
- 
4 
California, is now organizing the Whole Earth Salvaging 
a 
Company. This excerpt from their handbill, plus the 
e. 
description of the “Lifehouse” concept, should help 
es 
: 
Getting to Know You 
groups in other communities begin similar programs. 
4 
z 
:: Whole Earth Salvaging 
Co. 
3 
Most suburbanites are in such resistance to being where they are that they deny themselves 
3 
aus 
Pe 
the possibility of really coming to know it. It is assumed that “the land” the suburban 
Sy Gene 
th 
OR 
EET 
ichbork 
d 3 
community is built on is the exclusive domain of people like plumbers, city engineers and 
=, 
: ? vate rh jee ee ts an OLE EARTH SALVAGIN Go 
building inspectors, and that the only thing the resident has a right to know is the insides 
rH 
ok satis SREP MAK 
ae 
of his house. But the sun shines and the rain falls on suburbia just like every other place. 
as 
wer 
Ecology is a3 much a reality there as it is in the high Sierras, and just as fascinating for the 
attentive student. 
How much do you know about the water table in your suburban community? How does 
the soil in your back yard test? Here are some ideas on ways to answer those questions. 
BACKYARD EXPLORING 
How much of the water which has fallen during the recent rains stays behind in the soil and 
where around your house can you find out? 
Get a spade and dig down deep to see where water has soaked the deepest. Try different 
places: 
in your garden or lawn, in the woods where there is a good cover of leaves, along 
a creek, in a hard-worn horse corral, on a steep slope, in the bottom of a gulley, in a dirt 
road. Measure where water has penetrated deepest and write down what you discovered. 
Testing Soils 
Bring samples of your different soils into the house——at least three——and label each to show 
#2 
2, Organize a neighborhood pick-up point (a garage, nearby 
households). 
. Arrange to pick up or have the “‘re-cyclable resources” 
out glass, aluminum cans, tin cans, and newspapers.) 
G 
. On specified dates (We start out Saturday, March 28th), 
take the segregated items to central storage points 
(Storage points now being located). If you know of 
any——-an unused shed, garage or lot——let us know at 
Ecology Action. 
ZGP——Zero Garbage Production—— 
vacant lot, etc.) (1 pick-up point for each group of 7 or 8 
taken to the pick-up point. (Each person should separate 
from: Ecology Action, 162 University Ave., Palo Alto, CA 94301 
: 
..
where it came from. Compare the size of the particles and the composition. This has much 
= Some Ideas on the “Lifehouse” Concept 
b 
to do with how easily water moves through a soil and how much water it will hold. 
rH 
Get three quart jars. Fill each 2/3 full of water. Pour a sample of soil into each, one per 
FH The lifehouse is a neighborhood community center, 
— 
jar, until the jar is almost full. Tighten the cover and shake vigorously. Then put the 
= set up in your own home, where help and information 
— 
jars on a table and let the soil settle. Allow plenty of time, maybe overnight. Which 
oh on the starting and running of food co-ops, gardens, 
soil settles out first? What is the nature of the soil particles in the soil that had the 
a ‘ 
+h 
li 
Parks 
d I tise f 4 
greatest depth of rain penetration? the least? Some of the finest particles may not 
=: 
COMPOS 
eaps, recycling of garbage, and 
planting of © 
settle out at all. 
Try to get samples of the soil at different depths in your jars. Use astraw. Do your dif- 
= 
. 
. 
ferent layers have different feels when you rub them between your fingers? Gritty (sand), 
s ae he seep oF Sent 
ee ae 
velvety (silt), smooth (clay) Sand particles are usually large——.08 to .002 inches in 
EH 
Cn Pcie 
em: 
ail 
as Bh Verte tre: 
diameter; silt, .002 to .0001 inches; clay, less than .0001. Can you roughly estimate how ° 
53 concept will, hopefully, result in the 
“community 
much sand, silt and clay your soils contain? Which soil composition was best for holding 
ae of San Francisco” being run by its citizens on aneee 
water on the land? 
Air in soil is just as important for storing water as composition. Water penetrates soil by 
:: Every lifehouse won't be able to do all of the above © 
following the air spaces. To find out which of your soils have the most air in them, fill 
Then add water to fill the jar. Note the air 
bubbles. Compare your soils. Which have most air? Maybe all the air spaces in your 
soil samples are filled with water. Dry your samples in the oven and then repeat the 
a quart jar half full with one kind of soil. 
experiment. 
Value of Water 
When water soaks into the soil it is held back in its rush to the sea. 
soil and it may seep through it gradually and follow underground rocks and cracks 
downhill. Or it may reach a tough strata under the ground where it settles, forming 
our underground water supply. We need to keep our soils and water right where they 
rH 
are, not rushing to the sea. How much silt is running off your hills and fields? 
Take a bucket of water out of your nearest stream or drainage ditch the next time it 
rains. 
Let it settle and find out. 
Perhaps you would like to try to keep the water and soil on your land by slowing down 
its flow. There are many ways: diversion ditches, small dams, planting of ground cover, 
bushes, and trees, gully repairs and improving the quality of the soil. 
and water could save your community a !ot of drainage problems. 
from The Black Mountain Gazette 
Sierra Club 
Peninsula Regional Group 
Vol. 1V, No. 1 
54 
It may stay in the 
Proper care of soil 
=: sidewalk trees (among many other related things) 
:: can be found. This includes information on pesti- 
= ecologically sound basis. 
# 
things immediately, but just starting simply with, 
say, getting everybody together to plant trees on 
your block (the city will break the sidewalk, and © 
(Bay Area Air Pollution Control District) on a 
smoggy day, would be a good start. 
:: plant. That is to say, a garage or basement where 
newspapers, corrugated cardboard, aluminum 
cans 
and rags can be stored and returned to dealers who 
will re-use them. 
mae 
be held. The will to do something about your own 
in exercising our will to survive. 
you must supply the trees), and knowing the proce. 
dure for filing a nuisance petition with the BAAPCD ~ 
Other houses might start with setting up a recycling — 
from: ecology action, 1370 Masonic, San Francisco, CA 94118 
You don’t have to turn your living room into an office, 
but just have a place where information can be kept 
(perhaps a small library) and occasional meetings can 
survival is the most important thing. The lifehouses 
_ 
will provide an opportunity for all of us to be involved 
— 
