CATALOG 
Procedure 
Ordering from the CATALOG 
Address orders to the supplier given with the item 
(unless you know of a better one, if you do, let us know). 
If the price listed is not “postpaid”, consult post office or 
express agency for cost of shipping from supplier’s location 
to yours. 
Add state sales tax if transaction is within your state. 
(California sales tax is 5%.) 
Send check or money order with your order. 
Blank order envelopes are provided at the back of the 
CATALOG for your convenience and so that suppliers 
have some idea of the CATALOG’s effect on their business. 
/f the supplier gives you poor service, let us know. 
That 
information can be added to his review. 
With some indicated items the CA TALOG also will ship. 
There is no price difference with the service; the 
CATALOG 
gets the markup instead of the other guy, is all. Our service 
is fairly fast, especially for west coast orders. Bear in mind 
there’s an inflation on. Prices are subject to rise without 
notice. 
Generally, the closer the supplier is to you, the quicker and 
cheaper the shipping will be. If the item you're getting is 
delicate or if you are in a hurry, air express is a good deal. 
Anything overseas do by air, unless you want to wait a 
month or so for delivery. 
Subscribing to the CATALOG 
$8.00 per year. This includes six issues, two big ones 
(Fall and Spring) and four smaller ones. Subscription 
forms are at the back. Memorize your zip code. If 
your address changes, you must tell us, because the 
Post Office won’t forward. 
Suggesting and Reviewing 
The validity of the information in the CA TALOG is only as 
good as the transmitted experience of users. What would 
you add to the current CA TALOG? 
The CATALOG pays its reviewers $10 an item for: getting 
familiar with the item, its usefulness, and its competition; 
evaluating the item; selecting samples of graphics or text 
(with page references) for the review; writing a 100-300 
word review. Reviewers and first-suggestors of items are 
credited in the CATALOG. 
We invite reviews that improve on present reviews or 
accompany 
suggestions for new items. On acceptance 
for CATALOG publication reviewers are paid $10 per 
accepted review. Unused reviews are not returned. 
Appearance of submitted material doesn’t matter 
unless it is meant to be camera-ready. 
Corresponding 
Commentary from CATALOG users that is of general 
interest is published in the $1 Catalog. Critical 
comments, new design processes, no-cash techniques, 
news of specific enterprises, useful fantasies, design 
student work, time and trouble shortcuts, new uses 
for common or exotic materials, other realms for the 
CATALOG to consider, &c., &¢., ———welcome. 
Donating 
Portola Institute, Inc. is a tax-exempt, non-profit educational , 
corporation. Donations to Portola or the CATALOG may 
be deducted. Retaining subscriptions to the CATALOG 
are $25 for.one year ($17 tax deductible). Sustaining 
subscriptions are $100+ per year ($92+ tax deductible). 
Names of retaining and sustaining subscribers are given 
in the CATALOG. 
Gifts and Informal Resale. 
CATALOGs are available in quantities of 5 or more at 
25% discount. Thus you can get 5 CA TALOGs for 
* 
$15, sell four, keep one, and come out $1 ahead. There 
is no quantity discount on subscriptions. 
For formal resale, see p. 54. 
Advertising 
Suppliers, manufacturers, creators of listed items are eligible 
to advertise in the Fall and Spring CA TALOGs. They may 
advertise only an item listed or their own catalog. All ads 
are placed at the back of the book. There are no ads in 
the $1 Catalog. 
Advertising rates: 
full page 10%’ x 14%” 
1/2 page 10%" x 7” 
Full page 
$200 
1/4 page 
Bu" x 7" 
1/8 page 
5%" x 33/8” 
1/16 page 2%" x 33/8” 
CATALOG 
Policy 
with Suppliers and Users 
The CATALOG is under no obligation to suppliers. Users 
are under no obligation to the CATALOG. 
Suppliers (manufacturers, creators, etc.) may not buy their 
way into the CATALOG. 
Free samples, etc. are cheerfully 
accepted by CATALOG researchers; response not predict- 
able. No payment for listing is asked or accepted. We owe 
— 
accurate information exchange to suppliers, but not favors. 
Our obligation is to CATALOG users and to ourselves to be 
good tools for one another. 
This issue 
Stewart is resting up for the spring catalog push. This Bodoni 
Book type is guest editor Gurney Norman speaking. And / am 
associate editor Diana Shugart, speaking in italic. The people 
we helped get this issue out are: 
Cappy McClure 
John Clark 
Bernie Sproch 
j 
Hal Hershey 
Les Rosen 
Megan Raymond 
~ 
Mary McCabe 
Russel! Bass 
Pam Smith 
Fred Richardson 
Peter Ratner 
Mary Jo Morra 
while 
Laura Besserman 
Bill Bourland 
: 
Alan Burton 
Soni Stoye 
Lois Brand 
Jerry Fihn. 
Austin Jenkins 
Tracy McCallum 
Leslie Acoca 
Preparation of the CATALOG was done on an IBM Selectric 
Composer, Polaroid MP-3 camera, and Stat-King camera. 
Printing by Nowels Publications, Menlo Park. 
The WHOLE EARTH CATALOG is published at Portola 
Institute, 558 Santa Cruz, Menlo Park, California 94025 
$1 Catalog 
— January 
$7 Catalog 
— July 
$1 Catalog 
— March 
$1 Catalog 
- Septembei 
carried on at the store. 
