Adobe was a new material to work with. It was used for 
-chinking and the fireplace. Its mixture was earth, straw and 
water. Everyone including my daughter could help with 
he adobing. The guys hauled rocks from near and far. Four 
aundred rocks in a jig saw puzzle had to fit tight without 
the adobe. The adobe for the fireplace did not have straw 
_and was stuffed into the cracks. Snow was threatening for 
the seventh time and | was expecting in a month. A full 
“stone chimney would have taken too long. They rocked in 
_achimney to the edge of the roof. They then got four pieces 
of stove pipe and took them apart and put two pieces togethe 
~ to make the funnel twice as large. They were held together 
_ by rivets. They found a metal earth drag and cut a hole in. 
the top and put it on the rock chimney. Then the stove 
_ pipes were riveted to the piece of metal. An empty fifty 
_ pound lard can served as a revolving draft control: 
The final projects were done inside. A wood stove had been 
given to us by a local family. Two sleeping lofts were built 
anda bunk for my daughter. Our great Christmas present 
g 
as moving in before a lasting snow from middle Dec. to 
late Jan. 
rh 
We The total cost of the cabin was $14. Even cheaper than 
Thoreau’s cabin that cost $28. It took two and a half weeks 
~ 
to build our new home. We felt very wealthy in many ways 
so we traded our tipi so others could also feel comfortable. 
There were three cabins on the land now all totally individ- 
ual. 
: 
Now it was time to sit back, relax, create and wait. We had 
_ decided to deliver the baby ourselves. Midwifery is a dying 
profession and in these parts most mid-wifes only speak 
q Spanish and are very old. You have to pick them up and 
__ since we had no transportation, that would be impossible. 
4 | went-in for an examination to the local clinic. They 
couldn't find my veins, my blood pressure and most sus- 
‘. piciously the fetal heart beat. This seemed strange because 
when I was in the hospital in Taos they also had difficulty 
finding the fetal heart beat. Also when ever my daughter and 
= 
~ | would make a wish, | would wish for a healthy baby. We 
~ never listen enough to our intuition. 
_ My water broke on a night we were invaded by ten people 
interested in the land. Luckly they had a car and children. 
So my daughter tripped off with them. We had all the 
necessary items ready——hot water, lots of towels, sterile 
_ 
gloves, gauze, cotton, bacitracin ointment in liquid form for 
| _ the baby’s eyes, cradle clothes and some tetracyclin to 
2 prevent infection. 
It was a simple birth much easier than 
_ Bgaaeasesace 
eususscaccuauecccsasecceseesessorss: 
ss 
peweoeeceses 
eusees: 
2 Good Words on Goats 
_ 
| recently. read in your Fall 1969 issue the selection on goat 
_ husbandry (p. 35). | was surprized to see Mackenzie's book 
~ reviewed as it is the most expensive dairy goat book there is 
j 
and since it is British it can be misleading with regard to units 
of measure (e.g. Imperial quarts) and other matters. 
Also the sentence ‘‘Toggenburg on the doe’s side as that’s who 
| 
determines milk production.)” could be very misleading. Gene- 
tically speaking the doe and the buck contribute equally to the 
milk producing capability of the offspring. Economically speaking 
if only one parent is to be a pure and/or registered animal it would 
| __be the buck. His services can be rented for $5 or $10 which is 
_ cheaper than feeding and housing him. Besides, he tends to have 
| 
__ the characteristic “goaty” odor which will carry over into the 
|, 
_doe’s milk if he is around. The does do not have this odor and 
are very clean, 
_{n buying dairy goats one should consider getting two because 
_ 
they are very social and like company. This improves the milk 
output in a synergistic manner and with breeding alternately at 
six month intervals one gets a year round supply of milk. A lone 
_ goat would tend to bleat and may disturb people. Dairy goats 
| 
_ 
are great pets and very entertaining. 
It takes two of them though 
_ to havea butting contest. We made the mistake of playfully 
butting with one when she was small, but our shins soon regretted 
it when she got bigger. There was no anger on her part. She just 
| 
thought everyone enjoyed butting. Dairy goats learn their names 
| 
‘at about two months of age. 
i 
im, 
b 
seful pamphlets are: 
‘Your Dairy Goat” 
‘University of California 
_ Public Service Office 
140 Administration Bldg. 
University of California 
be Davis, California 95616 
any state agricultural extension services and the U.S. Dept. of 
Agriculture have similar information. 
“The Purina Goat Book”’ 
Ralston Purina Co. 
Checkerboard Square 
St. Louis, Missouri 63119 
rmation is also available from: 
“American Dairy Goat Association 
Box 186 
ale, North Carolina 28160 
American Goat Society 
; 
1606 Colorado Street 
es 
Manhatten, Kansas 66502 
= 
One might ask for a list of breeders in his area. Even if you do not 
buy a goat it is useful to know where the breeders are. Then you 
have a source of ‘‘goat blessings” to spread around the vegetable 
garden. 
; One can also write for a sample copy of: 
H 
; Dairy Goat Journal 
} 
P.O. Box 836 
- 
Columbia, Missouri 65201 
umber of useful American books on dairy goats exist. They 
in some libraries or advertized in the Dairy Goat Journal. 
e should check on zoning regulations in his area before buying 
goats. 
ee 
“a? 
Sincerely, 
! 
Lape 
; 
Robert A. Burgess 
Bont. 
“ 
-. 
‘os Angeles, CA 
| 
Sati 
ony 
in the hospital. With each contraction | tightly held my 
husband’s hand and drifted off into the conversation of 
the couple who had come to help. With a few blood curdling 
screams, the baby was out. | delivered the baby on my 
daughters bunk and practically crawled up the wall for 
bearing down. Breathing was essential. 
| had practiced 
both the LaMaz method of breathing and exercised during 
pregnancy. My husband and friend had been prepared by 
the doctor who owned the land on what to do. Not to 
cut the umbilical cord right away. Clean the baby’s eyes 
out and not worry about the vernix caseosa. For it was 
most important to keep the baby warm. We had a roaring 
fire in the stove and fireplace. A Coleman lantern gave off 
so much light it almost blinded us. All: seemed well; | 
felt great and was waiting to pass the afterbirth. My hus- 
So What's Your Reason for Going to the Woods? 
Dear Patriot: 
The American dream became a nightmare when the outlaw govern- 
ments of Washington and Moscow devised the Yalta plot to rule 
the world! The shame of Americans is their support of this Marxist- 
liberal deception! 
No less deceived are the FBI, and the Committee on Un-American 
Activities who failed 
to stem the tide of subversion by concentrating 
on the Communist Party which exists solely as a decoy for the 
express purpose of diverting suspicion from the liberal conspir- 
ators in power! 
F 
To achieve their Marxist ambition, the liberals must erase the concept 
of God and morals from the mind of man! Hence, they assault the 
Constitution as the root source of moral and spiritual strength! 
It gave rise to the criminally conceived Civil Rights, and War on 
Poverty programs of all out immorality! This is the ultimate in 
self destroying evil that dooms the liberals for the following reason: 
There are only two methods 
by which the world can be ruled: One 
is by the God authored moral law that cements human relations in 
a free society of law and order. And the other is by immoral 
authoritarianism that binds the social order by means of brute force. 
And by undermining the already weakened moral order, the liberals 
will spring the trap for their own destruction and precipitate a world 
holocaust before they will have had time to set up their Marxist 
- 
dictatorship! Time is short! 
This falling apart of the world order is prophetically scheduled for 
March 31, 1966! All values will go into a tailspin March 24, 1966! 
$3 
A grievous tragedy in February, 1966, will forewarn America’s 
fall! 
The American continent will be shaken severely May 10, 1966! 
Russia will hold 1% years longer prior to its total annihilation! 
The deceived masses who supported Satanic liberalism will, to the 
last man, woman and child, die by the hand of the very enemy to 
whom they betrayed America, for the Russians will drop missiles, 
and then invade the U.S. in July, 1966, to wage their wholesale 
extermination! 
This will mark God’s perfect justice in the day of judgment! 
SANCTUARY FOR CONSERVATIVES 
The conservatives who could not be deceived, are now being warned 
and directed to the Bible designated sanctuary where they will be 
sustained and protected by God, and strengthened to gain the 
ultimate victory! 
It will be no less a miracle then the deliverance 
out of Egypt! 
The following Bible excerpts give dates and locate the sanctuary: 
“The mount of Olives’ (Sec. 14.4), identifies the U.S. as a nation 
of peace. The rest of the verse shows it divided north and south by 
the Mason-Dixon Line, and east and west by the Continental Divide. 
“And ye (conservatives) shall flee to the valley of the (Rocky) 
mountains” (Zec. 14.5), in response to my warning of the 
coming disaster for protection and survival. The verse continues: 
“'Eor the valley of the (Rocky) mountains shall reach unto Azal 
(separates)’’. This identifies the Continental Divide that ‘‘separates”’ 
the water flow east and west. 
It also emphasizes that San Luis 
“valley of the (Rocky) mountains shall reach unto Azal’’, or the 
Continental Divide, from its starting point at the base of Sangre 
De Cristo mts. 
Sangre De Cristo (blood of Christ) mountains, identifies the 
; 
United States as the nation of Christ, and the scene of his 
salvation! 
Zec. 14.8, also locates the U.S. between “‘the former (eastern) 
sea’ or the Atlantic. . . ‘‘and the hinder sea’’, or the Pacific. 
666 is “the number of a man” (Re. 13.8) who is Adam, and 
identifies the 6000 year Adamic dispensation which ends in 
1966 to make up 666. 
© The 6000 year period was to end in the year 2000, but time 
was shortened or ‘there should be no flesh saved’’ (Mat 24.22), 
due to the ever increasing danger-of an all-out atomic war 
and total annihilation! 
(Nostradamus’ 12,143 days (c.3,q.56), extends from Jan 1,1933, 
to March 31, 1966, as the period of liberalism and treason in 
= 
the U.S.) 
FLEE TO COLORADO 
Beginning March 31, 1966, Christ, in his second coming, will be 
the “receiver” (Isa.33.18) of the conservatives in San Luis 
valley at Alamosa, and Salida in southwestern Colorado, as 
their awaited hope! 
We will endure 3 years of severe hardship in the sanctuary 
(Isa. 37-30) before returning to normal life in a tax-free society 
of perpetual prosperity, launched by the conservatives as the 
“‘kingdom of God’’! 
Sleeping bags, axes for firewood, hunting, fishing, and camping 
equipment will be needed. 
In any event, God will see us 
through! 
This warning must take fire throughout the conservative 
community! 
Michael Rayes 
P. O. Box 447 
Monte Vista, Colo, 
January 10, 1966 
Reprinted from a weird weekly newspaper, name unknown. 
Dau MULILGU UND wey 
~-—--- 
ag 
dressing the baby | held him and realized that even with 
my warmth and many blankets our son was cold. As much 
| 
as | hated to we called the local clinic from a neighbor's store, 
three miles away. We wanted to give our son every opportunity 
for life. 
A doctor and a nurse came at dawn. What a farce. He had the 
wrong emergency bag, didn’t know how to work the oxygen 
tent, insisted it would require an operation to pass the after- 
birth.. So my husband, our baby and | went into the clinic 
twenty miles away. The doctor was annoyed and left a nurse 
in charge. | easily passed the after birth and my husband took 
care of the baby. He took a stethoscope and realized that 
breathing had stopped. As well as delivering his son he also 
made out his death certificate. We wanted to bury our son 
on the land nearby, so some red tape had to be dealt with. 
Luckily the visitors picked us up and we returned home. 
An indian Friend stopped by that day. He told us not to 
worry and forget. We didn’t want to forget; we were sad 
then but that was natural and soon we would be able to 
talk about the short life of our son. There are many beautiful 
22 
things in a world of nature that can cure all sorts of wounds. 
We had much to be thankful for. 
The snow melted——we tripped——and began to build and 
2! create. An outhouse was again dug and built. That was a 
3: great luxury. in between building the guys began to hike 
5 up some of the mountains. They could see for hundreds 
of miles. They made all sorts of discoveries about the area. 
The mountain would be a source of inspiration always. My 
daughter and | climbed to a small ridge and sat a long time 
listening to the winds. 
s 
When they came down they brought a new material for 
working, antler. They spent many hours making antler 
pipes, buttons and knife handles. My husband works 
with leather so after having made enough serviceable 
clothes for himself, he started to make things to sell. 
| got into making candles and ordered some pottery 
supplies. With hand made goods and our coming garden, 
we should be able to be self sufficient. 
The summer I'm sure will bring an onslaught of people that 
can’t be turned away. The land can only hold so many people 
and we do not want to bring a city condition to such a perfect 
setting. So we look to the hills for the future. Land with 
no roads to it where we can build a stone house and live 
again on a new frontier. 
Sescceusceccecs 
sogsanecauesssase 
Soviet Books; da 
A thought. Soviet books; yes, written in Russian. One of the points 
the Soviets push with great and justifiable pride about their country 
is the easy accessibility of education——do-it-yourself or official—— 
especially along certain lines, which includes beautiful detailed 
books about peasant architecture, graphic and detailed books about 
the medicinal and other helpful uses of wild plants, and so forth. 
Some of these are set up so you don’t need to know Russian at 
all, and others a few minutes’ work with a dictionary will give 
plenty of access to. They sell so cheap in the Soviet Union (part 
of making it accessible) that even with transport and markup, 
they are mostly tremendous bargains in the U.S: You can get 
them from only a few bookstores in the U.S., among them 
Schoenhof's, Harvard Sq., Cambridge, Mass., 02138; Kamkin Inc., 
1410 Columbia Rd., NW, Washington D.C. 20009; Four 
Continents Book Corp, 156 Fifth Ave., NY NY 10010; (and there's 
one in San Francisco, | think whose address | can’t find at the 
moment. Also, through any One of these stores you can subscribe 
#5 
to aweekly service called Novye knigi SSSR [New Books of the 
USSR] (52 issues for $2.00!) which announces in advance the 
books that are going to be published during the coming months. 
Knowing Russian helps in making sense out of this, but isn’t 
absolutely necessary——all you have to do is learn a few key 
words. 
The bookstores themselves will send out price lists (though these 
are generally not broken down so much into categories, so knowing 
Russian is more important), and are mostly pretty good about 
answering questions like: 
‘‘do you have anything on... ?” 
Similar service for other Eastern European countries can be 
obtained from FAM Book Service, 69 Fifth Ave., Suite 8F, New 
York, NY 10003. 
Hugh Olmsted 
Brooktondale, NY 
More New Schools 
I’m director of the Teacher Drop-Out Center here at the School of 
Education, University of Massachusetts. 
We’re a clearinghouse of 
information on and a specialized placement service for free, innova- 
tive, community, alternative schools around the country. People 
write to us, tell us who they are, where they’re at & where they’re 
at about education and we try to help them. (We’ve got alist of 
such schools that we are in contact with and a continuing list of 
job openings.) If you can, would, I'd appreciate a mention in your 
magazine. Our group is also interested in helping people set up al- 
ternative schools. 
Peace, 
Len Solo 
368B Laurel Ridge Apts. 
Hatfield Street 
Northampton, Mass. 01060 
' 
Home address: 
& 
