Cheese, Yogurt, & Beer 
On page 13 of your last Suppiement there is a request for 
information about making cheese without special equipment. 
As | have never seen this subject reviewed in your Catalog 
| am enclosing the accompanying material. 
| was informed 
by the Department of Food Science and Technology, 
University of California, Davis, several years ago that there 
are no full length books on cheese making for the home- 
maker. Thus, | think it is important for people to know 
about these pamphlets and about sections in books. Mono- 
graphs on cheese making which are intended for the dairy 
industry are highly technical, make enormous quantities 
and require expensive equipment due to the concern with 
precise quality control. 
In answer to the queries on page 
13 of the supplement | have spelled out the various kinds 
of incubators you can improvise for keeping yogurt insu- 
lated at steady temperatures, in communes, wilds & kitchens. 
CORRECTION: See page 12 of Supplement (3rd para- 
graph of 3rd column.) R.H. Shumway Seedsmen do 
carry herb seeds. See page 21 of their catalogue where 
they offer at least 20 different herb seeds, usually at 
35¢, 30¢ or 25¢ a packet and with special bulk prices—— 
everything from wormwood, sorrel, balm, horehound 
to thyme, marjoram etc. 
Note. See Supplement p. 13 bottom right corner. The 
Tilke book costs about $18 if ordered from Blackwells 
but $2° 00 if ordered from American outlets 
CHEESE, YOGURT AND OTHER CULTURED MILK PRODUCTS: 
HOW TO MAKE THEM YOURSELF. 
Walter, H.E. 
An American-Type Cheese: How to make it for 
home use, Farmers’ Bulletin No. 2075, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture (Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government 
Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402), 1962. Price 10¢, 
9 pages. 
This booklet tells you in detail exactly what to do to make an 
American type cheese similar to Cheddar. 
This type of cheese 
is called ‘’granular or stirred-curd cheese.’ You can use either 
raw or pasteurized milk. No special equipment is required and 
you can make several implements yourself quite easily by following 
their instructions. They tell you how to make a cheese hoop out 
of any one-gallon tinned container with straight sides. 
Philllips, Clement A. ‘’Making.Cheese at Home,’’ ONE—SHEET 
ANSWERS No. 90, 1963, Free. (Department of Food Science and 
Technology, Agricultural Extension Service, University of 
California, 209 Roadhouse Hall, Davis, California) 
This page tells you how to make cottage cheese using a culture 
rather than rennet, and neufchatel cheese which is a soft, whole- 
milk cheese. The neufchatel cheese is made with rennet which 
is known by the trade name ’’Junket.”’ 
"Newer Knowledge of Cheese’ 
(Dairy Council of California, 
3900 West 3rd St., Los Angeles, California 90005) 48 pages, Free 
“Cheese Varieties and Descriptions,” 
U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, 
Agriculture Handbook No. 54, (Superintendent of Documents, 
U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C.) Price, about 50¢ 
“How to Make Yogurt” from an article by L. A. Burkey, Division 
of Dairy Research Laboratories (BDIM-Inf-2, USDA-ARS, Bureau of 
Dairy Industry, Washington 25, D.C.) 
| got a copy of this from 
Department of Food Science and Technology, Agricultural Extension 
Service, University of California, 209 Roadhouse Hall, Davis, 
California. 6 pages, Free. 
The instructions are very detailed and scientific technical explanations 
accompany each stage of the process so you will know what you are 
doing. They do not tell you how to make an incubator. 
When you buy JUNKET Rennet Tablets there are instructions in 
the package which tell you how to make ice-cream and cottage 
cheese. They will send you other recipes for making cottage 
cheese with rennet tablets if you write to Salada Foods Inc., 
Woburn, Massachusetts. They tell you that Rennet is a natural 
enzyme but what they don’t 
tell you is that rennet is the digestive 
juices found in the lining of the cow’s stomach. 
In Scotland and 
elsewhere, cubes of cow's stomach were put in the milk to make 
it set. 
1f you butcher your own animals and want to use the stomach, 
you will find instructions for curing the stomach and making the 
cheese in many nineteenth century books on cattle and dairy 
husbandry. The methods used in Scotland are outlined in 
Chambers’s Information for the People edited by William and 
Robert Chambers, volume II. No. 78, pp. 433-446 (1842) in 
an article called ‘Cattle and Dairy Husbandry.” 
Hunter, Beatrice Trum. The Natural Foods Cookbook. 
She tells you how to make buttermilk, sour cream, clabbered 
milk, and milk cultured with kefir grains. She also tells you how 
to make cream cheese, cottage cheese, Irish Moss (carageen) 
cheese and soy cheese. She provides good instructions for making 
your own yogurt with an electric incubator and without one. 
Elwood, Cathryn. Feel Like a Million (Pocket Books, 1 West 
39th Street, New York, New York 10018) No. 75084 Price 75¢ 1968 
- 
She has a whole chapter on Bulgarian yogurt and provides good 
instructions for making your own, with and without an electric 
incubator. 
Hauser, Gayelord. Gayelord Hauser’s Treasury of Secrets 
(Fawcett World Library, 67 West 44th Street, New York, N.Y. 10036) 
No M898/8 Price 95¢, 569 pages 
1963 
He tells you how to make your own buttermilk, kefir milk, cottage 
cheese, yogurt and French cream cheese which is the easiest thing 
to do. His yogurt instructions are clear. To make French cream 
cheese you just dump a cup of yogurt into a hanky and let it hang 
above your sink overnight. 
By morning you will have tender, creamy, 
low fat, high protein cheese. 
|f you want to you can flavor it with 
herbs, a little Roquefort or just have it straight. 
Jones, Dorothea Van Gundy. The ye des Cookbook 
(Arc Books, 
219 Park Avenue South, New York, N. Y. 10003) No. 1770, Price 
$1.45 
240 pages. 
She has a whole chapter on making your own soy milk Ea other 
whole chapter on making your own soy cheese (tofu) and recipes 
for making your own soy yogurt. 
Davis, Adelle. Let’s Cook it Right (Harcourt, Brace and World Inc., 
757 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 10017) 1962, Price $3.95, 597 pages 
She has excellent instructions for making different types of yogurt all 
out of powdered skim milk. You can use goat’s milk and you can 
enrich the powdered milk mixture with a can of evaporated milk. 
oy 
oe 
She tells you what to do if you don’t have an electric incubator. 
She also tells you how to make your own cottage cheese and butter- 
milk. She also has an excellent recipe for Pasha, an uncooked cheese 
cake made from cottage cheese and powdered milk. 
Rombauer, Irma S. and Marion Rombauer Becker. The Joy of 
Cooking (The Bobbs-Merrill Co., Inc., 4300 West 62nd St., Indian- 
apolis 
6, Indiana) 
1964, Price $6. 50 
849 pages. 
They tell you how to make a number of unripened soft cheeses and 
~ 
explain the principles of cheese making. They tell you how to use 
raw milk. There are recipes for making cottage cheese, neufchatel 
cheese, rich cream cheese, buttermilk, yogurt, cultured sour cream, 
devonshire or clotted cream, creme fraiche, soy bean milk, nut and 
coconut milks. 
The instructions for making yogurt are excellent and careful instruc- 
tions are given for making your own incubator out of foam rubber 
and plastic bags. 
Hosain, Attia and Sita Pasricha. Cooking the Indian Way (Spring 
Books, Westbook Bouse, Fulham Broadway, London, England) 
1962, Price, less than one dollar. 245 pages . You may order 
this book from Blackwells 
% 
There are recipes for yogurt and panir, an indian cheese made of 
milk and lemon juice which is pressed under a weight so that it 
becomes flat and all the moisture is removed. 
Vithaldas, Yogi and Susan Roberts. The Yogi Cookbook (Pyramid 
Books, 444 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022) 1968, 
price 75¢ No. T-1900 126 pages 
Recipes are provided for yogurt and for panir. The panir recipe is 
similar to Gayelord Hauser’s French cream cheese recipe except 
that instead of using yogurt you use a mixture of milk and lemon 
juice. 
Singh, Mrs. Balbir. Indian Cookery (Mill and Boon Ltd., 50 Grafton 
Way, Fitzroy Square, London W 1) 21 shillings, 1967, 207 pages 
She gives excellent instructions for making yogurt. She recommends 
wrapping the bow! containing the potential yogurt with a blanket as 
is done in England and India. Jersey milk and buffalo’s milk may be 
used. Her recipe for panir is also excellent and she gives a careful 
explanation of how panir is used in Indian cooking. 
Communes might be interested in a standard os, book on food 
preservation: 
oe 
Chenoweth, Walter Winfred. Food Presents A textbook for 
student, teacher, Home-maker and home factory operator (New 
York, 1930) 
Each type of preservation is covered in detail with practical instruc- 
tions (drying, salting, pickling, canning, jelly making, curing, smoking, 
etc.) 
MORE BOOKS FOR THE FOOD FORAGER 
Gaertner, Erika Eva. Harvest without planting; eating and nibbling 
off the land (Chalk River, Ontario, 1967) 65 pages, Price $2.50. 
Write to D. F. Runge, Pembroke, Ontario. 
Tobe, John Harold. Sprouts, the elixir of life (St Catharines, 
Ontario, Modern Publications, 1967) 112 pages, Price $2.50 
Write to Tobe’s Seeds Ltd., St. Catharine, Ontario. 
Muskie Jones ’s favourite dishes of the menfolk from the Canada 
of more than 100 years ago (Toronto, Algonquin Publications, 
1965) 89 pages, Price $1.00. Write to Camp Wild Duck, Clarkson, 
Ontario. 
Muskie Jones is supposed to be a legendary folk hero, and these 
are his recipes. 
é 
Antonovich, Mrs. Katerina. The Ukrainian costume; historical 
notes, practical instructions, illustrations, cross stitch designs 
... 
(Winnipeg Woman’s World, P. O. Box 791, Winnipeg, 
Manitoba) second enlarged edition 1964, Price $1.50 This 
booklet is partly in Ukrainian and partly in English. 
YOGURT (especially for hikers who want to make it in the wilds—— 
just take powdered milk and a packet of dry Bulgarian yogurt 
culture with you. You can incubate the yogurt in a blanket, dead 
leaves or pine boughs) 
1. Mix 1% cups powdered skim milk with a quart of water (or use 
proportion recommended on the powdered milk package). Then 
add an additional cup of powdered milk. 
2. Bring milk to scalding temperature and allow to cool to about 
116 degrees Fahrenheit. 
(The milk will lose its heat quickly so 
since the optimum incubating temperature is 113 degrees it is 
best to start the milk a few degrees higher) 
. 
Mix in well % cup yogurt or a package of dry yogurt starter. 
Pour into a large bowl or into pint or quart jars. 
Incubate at 113 degrees for 2-15 hours. 
ky 
Oop 
w Caution: Yogurt is at its best——thick, creamy, custard like 
consistency, mild flavored, finely textured——if it is held at 
a constant temperature of 113 degrees without being jiggled. 
!f the temperature is too high,or the yogurt is jiggled it will 
be coarsely textured and runny. 
If the temperature is too low 
it may not form yogurt at all or if it does, the yogurt will be 
very sour and runny. The longer the yogurt sits, the more acidic 
it becomes. 
: 
Note: Yogurt if chilled well will keep for weeks. After that 
just scrape off the mould that may form & continue to eat 
or to use in starting a fresh batch. 
| have found 3 week old 
yogurt (& older) very good for starting new batches of yogurt. 
7. Incubation: 
a) First step is to make sure all your utensils are 
warm. Then you can improvise an incubator. 
b) The simplest 
procedure is to. find a warm spot (pilot light, oven, sun) 
preferably free from drafts and to wrap the container of 
yogurt with a blanket, straw, or any other insulating material. 
c) Another possibility which works very well is to find a big 
container (pot, roasting pan, pressure cooker, canning kettle, 
picnic copler——especially the styrofoam, spongy variety——) 
and to place your jars of yogurt mixture in it. Then pour in 
water which is about 116 degrees fahrenheit (a candy or meat 
thermometer comes in handy but is not necessary——again, the 
116 degrees is to allow for a gradual loss of heat). Cover the 
container and wrap with a heavy towel, blanket or something 
else to insulate it. The container should be placed in a warm 
spot such as on the pilot light or on a stove with the oven turned 
on low. d) For communes who want to make large quantities, 
it is easy to make a giant incubator. Take a large wood box and 
line it with thick styrofoam or a material like the stuff those 
spongy picnic coolers are made of (it is white, blue flecked, 
hard spongy stuff also used to make ice buckets because it is 
such a good insulator). Then fill it with water which is 116 
degrees as an insulating bath for pint or quart jars of yogurt 
mixture. 
| prefer making yogurt in quart quantities or less because 
it tends to set more quickly and the product is tastier. Also, 
once you begin scooping cupfuls of yogurt out of a gallon 
batch, the stuff left over tends to ‘‘weep”’ or give off water. 
e) Other ingenious ideas for making a large or small scale incu- 
bator will be found in The Joy of Cooking where plastic bags 
and foam rubber are used. You can even make yogurt ina 
thermos. 
lf you are ever hunting for a special recipe or for recipes which’ 
use some special ingredient, write to Sunset Magazine, Lane. 
Magazine and Book Company, Menlo Park, California 94025. 
5 
They will zerox for you free of charge the recipes they have i 
ing) Ke 
their files. | got excellent recipes from them for bagels, pretzels, 
crackers, flat bread, panettone, stollen, christopsomo, limpa,. i ai 
tortillas, pumpernickel, Armenian peda bread, how to make 
ae 
your own beef jerkey, how to cure olives, how to use bean | 
ig 
curd and much more. 
For bread beginners who haven't the 
bread for a book, invest in a five cent postcard and ask Sunset 
for their article which gives excellent detailed instructions and. 
lots of photographs for baking a basic loaf of bread. They also : 
sent me excellent recipes for all the different ways ycu can 
a 
use filo dough, for making a superb couscous, for cooking ih 
yogurt, for complete Indian meals, for making your own 
sausage, mousakka, and Indonesian dishes. 
eek 
See asiedi 
For making a beautiful home made vinegar write to Blue Ribbon we 
Malt Products, Inc. Peoria Heights, Illinois. Also ask them for 
the dealer nearest you who carries their product. Then you 
can also use Blue Ribbon Malt Extract for making beer. They 
don’t tell you how, however. So here is a tried and true recipe, 
for making beer which will cost you about 6¢ a quart. 
é 
fr: 
Home Brew: a traditional recipe, not from a book. 
| wrote it up. 
Simple, Cheap, Potent 
2 tablespoons dry yeast (2 pkgs.) 
5 pounds white sugar 
3 lb. Blue Ribbon Hops Flavored Malt Extract (Light or 
r 
Dark) 
% teaspoon powdered ginger 
2 teaspoons salt 
2 teaspoons citric acid (sour salt) 
[optional but reconmmedtaalt baw 
it at a drugstore 
8-9 gallons water (depending on desired potency. water oe be 
increased) 
: 
obs 
Phase |. Combine Yeast with 2 tablespoons sugar and sien ane 
cup warm (1009-105°F) water and let it sit about 20 minutes | 
it gets bubbly. 
Phase I!. In aplastic garbage can or clay crock (be sure to use a non- 
metallic container) put the malt extract, the sugar and about a gallo) 
of boiling water. Stir well till the sugar is dissolved & everything is — 
well blended. Add the salt & citric acid. Add 9-11 Fe The 
of water 
so that the resulting temperature is about 100°-110°F. The add 
the yeast mixture and mix well. 
. 
BEN 
Phase III. Cover the crock or plastic can well. Use a cneek of 1 
or several sheets of Saran Wrap and tie the plastic onto the can 
string or even better, elastics. You want to keep the air out. After 
about 20 hours the gas will build up. Release it without lettin: 
air. Let sit in a warm place at a relatively constant temperature of 
about 70-80°F. away from drafts & not on a chilly floor for abou 
5-7 days until the yeast has ceased to work. The foam on the top — 
nit 
will all disappear & there will be no bubbling or gas-in the beer. i‘ se 
(Beer should be flat) 
Phase 1V. To bottle, sterilize quart beer bottles or pop ported or 
wine bottles or use big gallon jugs (for a party). Use an enema 
tube (preferably new) to siphon off the beer. Avoid disturbing 
the yeast sediment on the bottom (it is reusable). For fizzy foam 
sparkly beer add 7 teaspoon "of sugar to each quart bottle. Cap wi 
a bottle capper. 
Less good is a screw top or for draught beer use any 
cork (not so good). If desperate, drink immediately. Bec 
ating, let sit ei: days. 
After you bottle the beer, the yeast sediment left in the bottom oft 
the crock can be used to start the next batch of beer. 
It canalso 
be used to bake delicious bread, so never throw it away. 
* 
The great advantage of this recipe is that all the ingredients Bie 
> hee 
equipment can be bought at a local grocery, drugstore or heard- *.— 
ware or else easily improvised. This recipe is also extremely’ 
simple & very cheap. 
Anything substantial published about it? Sheen 
be something in print about biorythms, worthy of er 
in the Gara Ouy 
thing more detailed aiaky these lines? [No pun. 
Maybe some Norbert mpegerPer son) in the audienc 
lead. 
4 
; 
Lastly, is this what the Supplements are sand ! 
| mean, the information supermarket, to whi 
address questions in hopes someone with ac 
information will respond? [Yep]. 
f 
F; 
Finally, how is Peter Sessions’ Bead Game 
digger in Hermann Hesse’ s paindysie Me 
m in 
So thanx’ again 
