Le 
Old People 
Maybe we ought to be talking about old people more. And 
to them, too. And listening, for their sake as well as ours. 
Everybody born in the 19th century is at least 70 now. 
Maybe the Catalog ought to have a section by and about 
those old neighbors, finding out what’s on their minds, 
learning what they remember, getting into their point of 
view. An Old Folks Page. For starters, here’s an item 
from an unknown weekly newspaper, by an unknown older 
writer. 
At first your younger associates begin calling you 
Uncle, Dad, or Pop. Then when you feel you are 
carrying your part with fellow workers and some 
one says: 
“Let me help you, Dad,” the truth begins 
to dawn upon you that you are slowing down and 
your associates recognized this long before you 
were aware of the facts. It is possible to cover up 
this slowing process for a few years by being care- 
fully on guard but eventually it will break out again 
and become more acute. 
When you begin to forget 
_ familiar names, leave out letters and words in writing, 
make miscalculations in business deals and bungle up 
things in which you were once an expert, you are 
| love every one of you, but | must reluctantly beg to join 
those who plead for less do-it-yourself midwifery unless—— 
and this is a HUGE unless——you have a-hip doctor on 
instant, around-the-clock ambulance call, and a girl in 
_ attendance who has been through a practical-nursing 
course and can (AND WILL!) put her foot down if she 
sees any signs of trouble. 
Take me, for instance. No one could have imagined I'd 
get into any trouble. 
I’d had two babies as easy as 
spitting. | thought | was a perfect risk for home delivery, 
but my nasty old spoilsport doctor talked me out of it. 
“Yeah,” | thought, “‘She wants those high hospital fees.’ 
Nevertheless, | went into the hospital. Grousing to the 
last minute about all that narsty red tape and inhibition of 
a woman’s simplest function. Who, me, have trouble? Why, 
| dropped babies as easy as a Chinese peasant woman. And 
so on, and so forth, far into the night. And farther into 
the night. And farther yet into the——hey, damn it, that 
baby should have been here a long time ago and | was 
beginning to feel rottener than | (a prime natural-child- 
birth candidate with two births behind me) should EVER 
have felt, 
Medication——I still felt worse. X-rays; no, not twins, 
just one block-buster. Anesthesia——not enough to 
put me out but enough to stop the screaming (and 
baby, I’m NOT a coward, | didn’t utter yell one when | 
had a dislocated knee reduced without anesthesia since 
-_-| can’t take demerol.) Too late for a Caesarean. More 
anesthesia. And far into the night, with my husband’s” 
face whiter than | ever saw it, the doctor dripping with 
sweat, and finally a “‘blue baby’, eleven pounds, bruised 
and scratched and one shoulder fractured in spite of the 
best O.B. in Berkeley. Ten minutes of straight oxygen 
to bring her round, forty stitches or so and (I think) a 
pint or two of blood in me. 
(I lay there and counted 
the damn stitches while they put them in. You can 
feel them even if they don’t really hurt.) 
Just imagine doing that in your commune? 
Yeah. One woman screaming her head off for eight 
or nine hours, (As1| say; ! didn’t even moan for No. 1 
and No. 2). One dead——very dead——baby, probably, 
at the end of it, since only incredible skill revived this 
one. Probably one very dead, bled-out woman, too. 
Six or eight nervous amateur midwives. 
. 
. all of whom 
would have two inconvenient corpses on their hands, 
_ and be charged'with being accessories before, during 
and after the fact of 
a) gross negligence 
b) practicing medicine without a license 
c) maybe even manslaughter. 
Oh, brother, would you ever have your troubles. Not to 
speak of me and my baby——although our troubles 
might be strictly between us and the Keepers of the Gate 
to the next world! 
| wonder how often it’s happened that a bungled child- 
birth has destroyed a workable commune? Once would 
be too often. 
So have your babies at home if you must, but for the 
love of God, send the girl to the local clinic for (1) prenatal 
care——the doctor will warn her if she’s likely to have 
trouble. And even then it may come unexpectedly, 
__as in my case, since | had NOT been so warned. 
Send her STRAIGHT TO A HOSPITAL if she (1) bleeds, 
(2) has a history of swollen ankles or any signs of toxemia 
impending as in the Merck Manual, or (3) if her first 
baby has been over seven pounds or if there is more than 
six or eight ounces increase between her first and second 
ie babies; that means the third may be enormous. 
This 
ager 
a 
entering the first stages of old age and the environ- 
ments that are a part of 
life’s journey. Ex-communi- 
cation set in, you are excluded from social, family 
and business meetings unless your financial standing 
is an asset to the success of such gatherings. If you 
do control the purse strings you are only a financial 
robot “on command.” 
When the preliminary requisites of old age are met 
and you start on the last lap of your journey you 
are isolated in your own home to be excluded from 
the outside world. 
You potter around, baby sit for 
your children and grandchildren while they are out 
enjoying the world. 
This affords some pleasure for 
a Short while but as today’s children offer little to 
prolong old age and when you no longer can tolerate 
this isolation and childhood vitality you are ready 
for the last lap of the journey which is offered in 
three different packages depending on the financial 
status of all concerned. 
Viz: A caretaker for you 
in your home, live with some of the family or go to 
a nursing home. In either case if a little forgetful- 
ness, temper or discontent become noticeable you 
may be sent to a mental institution for a hurried 
journey to the end. 
happens in pre-diabetic women who have no other 
symptoms. And finally (4) keep a telephone line open 
all the time she is in labor, so that if she manifests any 
trouble you can get hold of a doctor within minutes, 
preferably an ambulance. 
One birth in ten shows complications; one baby IN FOUR 
shows a birth defect——which can be aggravated if birth 
is hard or prolonged. Unattended births show the most 
serious oxygen starvation/anoxia-brain-injury which leads 
to mental retardation. And three births in a hundred are 
so complicated that without EXPERT medical help you 
may have a death on your hands, without warning. Don’t 
say “It can’t happen to you.” | said it couldn’t happen to 
me——but if I’d stuck to it and fled to the hills to escape 
that dehumanizing hospital I’d be dead, or at best seriously 
damaged with a dead child, or brain-injured baby to raise. 
Have you ever seen a badly brain-injured child? Visit your 
local hospital for the feeble-minded some day. Most so- 
called “‘idiots’’ and “‘imbeciles’”’ are victims of brain injury. 
| dislike many, many of the fruits of civilization. 
But 
modern obstetrics is one I'd sooner not dispense with. 
Sure, having a baby is natural. So is dying in childbirth. 
Look in any medieval graveyard. Most men went through 
a few wives that way. 
Love to you all, 
Marion Zimmer Bradley (Breen) 
Staten Island, New York 
The end comes and relatives and friends gather 
around, weep and eulogize your past, leaving only 
the distribution of your estate and then oblivion. 
If there is little to divide each eligible person will 
select a momentum from your belongings as a 
souvenir, then sell, burn or destroy the remainder. 
If you were wealthy, your heirs (some you have 
never seen) will meet with a lawyer or administrator 
to fight over the spoils, leaving enmiety that may 
remain through generations. 
This about completes 
the diary of most old people. 
The writer is a passenger on this old timer train and 
as such, would like to offer in behalf 
of all travelers 
on the last lap of their journey the following: old 
people are still humans and like to be noticed by 
young and old. They are at their best both morally 
and spiritually and from experience both good and 
bad they can offer some splendid advice to younger 
generations if their services were sought more often. 
Being old, and tottery, does not destroy their love 
for humanity. Every one should respect old age 
because they too will be a passenger on this train 
some day and the golden rule will make the last few 
miles more enjoyable. 
Being a woman who had a joyful natural childbirth and who 
nursed her baby for 2% years, | was pleased to see The New 
Childbirth and the Womanly Art of Breastfeeding reviewed 
in your Fall 1969 catalogue. 
When | recommend the breastfeeding manual, | feel compelled 
to reassure the prospective reader that it is very sound advice 
in spite of its syrupy prose. 
It is so sugar-coated as to make 
one suspicious. 
The New Childbirth is an inspiring and practical book from 
England. Even more impressive, inspiring, and convincing 
is an English film called Birthday. Persons interested in 
seeing this film can rent it for $25. per week or $10. per 
show. 
’ 
Write to Mrs. Ted Beals, 1122 Mixtwood Street, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan 48103. 
Excerpts from Birth Control Handbook worry me so much 
that | hasten to issue a warning even before | have obtained 
and read it. They sound like something written from obste- 
trician’s handouts (which are furnished to the doctor by 
the makers of pills, foams, etc.). 
This literature paints a rosey picture of the “‘liberated’”” woman 
who may choose from one of many marvelous methods of 
birth control. 
It glosses over the failure rate and the side- 
effects. Worse, it fails to mention at all some very real 
dangers involved when a woman uses an!.U.D. 
‘Though 
we've all heard of the problems with the pill, very few 
people——some of them doctors, it would appear——know 
that an 1.U.D. can transmigrate. 
That is, it can pass through the uterine wall into the 
abdominal cavity. Sometimes it makes its escape through 
a tube. Surgery is the only means of removal. 
My doctor knew, and did not tell me, that the loop he 
recommended so highly could transmigrate, even when 
| asked if it wouldn't irritate the uterine wall. So mine 
did. 
No one can be certain just when my loop transmigrated. 
Those little strings disappeared soon after it was inserted 
but | was assured that it had just moved up or turned 
around. 
| got pregnant and was assured that the loop usually comes 
out with the afterbirth and that if | didn’t miscarry in 
the first 3 months | would probably have a healthy child. 
(“with an eye poked out?”’ | wondered) After 3 months 
| felt a little more relaxed. 
At 5 months | miscarried. The loop didn’t show up as 
predicted and THEN | was told about the phenomena 
of transmigration. 
“Bad Luck’’ | might have said, had | been told when 
the device was first presented to me, of this hazard. 
Instead | felt victimized. 
It should have been my 
choice to risk it. It wasn’t, because | didn’t know that 
such a thing could happen. Transmigration is not uncommon. 
Women should know about it. 
| would like to see a birth control handbook which deals 
with the problem realistically. One that gives you all the 
facts so you can make a choice fully aware of what you are 
doing. 
Its nice that the book you have reviewed tells how you 
might obtain an abortion. 
Its comforting to hear that 
there are safe, clean abortions. But! can’t help but feel 
that a hell of a lot was made light of in the one-sentence 
mentioning local anesthetics and antibiotics and pain- 
killers. Some ninny is liable to decide not to bother with 
birth control if an abortion is such a snap. 
Sincerely, 
Ann Hawkins 
Washington, D.C. 
