Park of The Ever Living 
Select a tract of wooded and/or meadow land, which contains nothing 
but earth and vegetation, no junk, no waste that is incapable of being 
reduced to clean earth again. Here will grow trees, grass, shrubs and 
flowers. The tract will be laced with foot trails. 
Frere will be received the ashes, after cremation elsewhere, of those for 
whom burial is desired. 
It will be only for those who want perpetual honor given only to their 
souls and/or the lives they have lived and want only temporary honor 
given to their bodies——the honor, in the words of Walt Whitman, of 
being “returned to the eternal uses of the earth.”’ Those who believe in 
personal immortality as I do, should prove their faith by scorning to 
preserve a body for which the soul no longer has any use. 
The custodian of the Park of the Ever Living will receive only ashes 
contained in a simple light wooden box, designed not to be preserved, 
but to disintegrate and become wholly a useful part of the earth. 
Burial will be under trees, under flower beds, under grass. 
The spot of 
any burial will not be marked in any way——no monuments, no head- 
This is the kind of burial that will be desired by 
men of great mind and heart, free of superstition. 
men will be sent to the Park of the Ever Living from all over the world. _ 
stones, no labels. 
excerpt from a statement by Edward J: Meeman, 
Press-Scimitar, Memphis, Tennessee. Suggested by 
Richard Raymond. 
Anyone Want to Die Here? 
| wrote Richard Alpert once about a ‘Center for Dying” 
and he expressed continuing interest. The problems were 
legal and economic, said he. | spose that’s still true but 
I’m happy to see the Catalogue planning a section on it. 
Laws can be changed and as for money, rich people have 
to die too and should be as concerned as anyone to die 
well, and so be willing to help on this. 
; 
: 
I've an acre of land nearby. No trees on it but a beautiful 
view over a valley & mountains and clear to the ocean. 
What could we do with it? Put up a Center? 
It’s zoned 
residential, one-family with guest house, only one kitchen—— 
very posh area but it’s not zoned against being born and 
dying. Why not try something with it? Meanwhile anyone 
who wants to go up there and die among the lupine with a 
superb view is welcome to do so, or anyone who wants 
to bury a friend——well | certainly wouldn't interfere or 
complain. | suppose a problem could arise in that Mafia 
and hoods would use such an area and bring in very bad 
_vibrations, as they always do. | wouldn’t like that. 
Probably you've seen this article in the L.A. Times but 
I’m enclosing it anyhow. In Siskayou County, Calif. 
dying or at least burial seems a bit less up-tight. | can’t 
vouch for its accuracy of course but it sounds interesting 
The ashes of such 
As Roshi Taji, a contemporary 
Zen master, approached death, 
his senior disciples assembled at 
his bedside. One of them, re- 
membering the roshi was fond of 
a certain kind of cake, had spent 
half a day searching the pastry 
shops of Tokyo for this confection, 
which he now presented to 
Roshi Taji. With a wan smile 
the dying roshi accepted a piece 
of the cake and slowly began 
munching it. As the roshi 
grew weaker, his disciples leaned 
close and inquired whether he 
ie 
& possible. 
I'll gladly answer any letters sent me c/o Whole Earth 
Catalog. 
Ria 
On Death and Dying 
__ On Death and Dying establishes a psychological fact that 
most people close to a dying person already know, even if 
they can’t admit it: One tends to turn away. Even from 
husbands, even from wives, even from one’s own children. 
Dying people are casualties of life. Their dying, especially 
if it is a long, drawn-out affair, is a reminder of how vulner- 
_able we all are, and that’s something most people want to 
forget. 
‘Tt’s in our process of trying to forget that the dying person 
himself is often forgotten. There he is, lying there, waiting 
to be recognized. Doctors, nurses, friends and relatives come 
to “see” him every day. But what he is desperate for is 
recognition, and recognition is what we seem so utterly 
unable to give. 
On Death and Dying is a powerful book, because it forces 
the reader into the point of view of someone dying. Sud- 
denly you're on the other side of that glass between the 
living and the dying, and it’s not comfortable. But, as 
had any final words for them. 
“Yes,” the roshi replied. 
The 
disciples eagerly exclaimed, 
“Please tell us!”’ 
“My, but this cake is delicious!”’ 
and with that he died. 
Told to Philip Kapleau 
Reprinted from Zen Bow 
| remember as a child the death of a farmer. He fell from a tree and 
was not expected to live. He asked simply to die at home, a wish 
that was granted without questioning. He called his daughters into 
the bedroom and spoke with each one of them alone for a few 
minutes. He arranged his affiars quietly, though he was in great 
pain, and distributed his belongings and his land, none of which was 
to be split until his wife should follow him in death. He also asked 
each of his children to share in the work, duties, and tasks that he 
had carried on until the time of the accident. He asked his friends 
to visit him once more, to bid good-bye to them. Although | was 
asmall child at the time, he did not exclude me or my siblings. 
We were allowed to share in the preparations of the family just as 
we were permitted to grieve with them until he died. When he did 
die, he was left at home, in his own beloved home which he had 
built, and among his friends and neighbors who went to take a last 
look at him where he lay in the midst of flowers in the place he had 
lived in and loved so much. 
: 
: 
He was quite aware that his days were numbered, and his greatest 
‘ 
wish was to be moved into different positions (he was paralyzed to 
his neck). He begged the nurse never to put the siderails up as it 
The Hospital Death 
The dehumanized atmosphere of the average hospital death 
has become a tragic sign of our times. The lonely bed of the 
dying more often than not contains a ‘sedated, comatose, 
be-tubed object, subconscious if not sub-human,”’ for the 
cool efficiency of the medical technocracy has created a 
laboratory-like environment where human emotions seem 
almost unwelcome. Undeniably medical practice inherently 
expresses deep compassion, but that compassion seems to 
have gone increasingly astray as the art and religion of death 
have become drowned in the science of prolonging life at 
any cost. ‘’To die in a hospital, probably while under the 
mind-benumbing influence of some opiate, or else under 
the stimulation of some drug injected into the body to 
enable the dying to cling to life as long as possible,’’ says 
Evans-Wentz in his Preface to THE TIBETAN BOOK OF 
THE DEAD, “cannot but be productive of an undesirable 
death, as undesirable as that of a shell-shocked soldier on 
a battlefield. Even as the normal result of the birth-process 
may be aborted by malpractices, so similarly may the nor- 
mal result of the death-process be aborted.” 
Reprinted from Zen Bow, vol. II, no. 5; published by 
The Zen Meditation Center of Rochester, 7 Arnold Park, 
Rochester, N. Y. 14607. Philip Kapleau, Resident Teacher. 
Everybody expected her to die soon, but day after day she remained 
in an unchanged condition. 
Her daughter was torn between sending 
her to a nursing home or keeping her in the hospital, where she 
apparently wanted to stay. Her son-in-law was angry at her for having 
used up their life savings and had innumerable arguments with his 
wife, who felt too guilty to take her out of the hospital. When | 
visited the old woman she looked frightened and weary. 
| asked her 
simply what she was so afraid of. She looked at me and finally 
expressed what she had been unable to communicate before, because 
she herself realized how unrealistic her fears were. She was afraid of 
“being eaten up alive by the worms.’” While | was catching my 
breath and tried to understand the real meaning of this statement, 
her daughter blurted out, “‘If that’s what’s keeping you from dying, 
we can burn you,” by which she naturally meant that a cremation 
would prevent her from having any contact with earthworms. 
All 
her suppressed anger was in this statement. 
On Death and Dying 
Elisabeth Kiibler-Ross, M.D. 
Elisabeth Kibler-Ross points out, the point is not always 
reminded him of being in a casket. The nurse, who was very 
1969, 260 pp. 
__~ to “comfort” the healthy. That tendency is a major 
hostile to this patient, agreed that she would leave them down at 
$6.95 postpaid 
Mics 
. 
. 
‘ 
‘ 
i 
all times. This private duty nurse was very angry when she was 
: 
i 
a peep tene Eee Cyne por 3 Ee 
disturbed in her reading, and she knew that he would keep quiet 
Fone 
endure, in addition to the physical 
failures 
that are 
killing 
as long as she fulfilled this wish. 
them. This book speaks for the dying in a way they are 
unable to speak for themselves. It’s disturbing, but then 
so is all education. I’d say this book is indispensable for 
all people who are living in the presence of someone 
else’s gradual death. 
But I, it isn’t dying alone, it’s the torture that pain can give you, 
like you just want to tear your hair out. You don’t care if you 
don’t bathe for days because it’s just so much effort, like you‘re 
becoming less a human being. 
Macmillan Co. 
Front and Brown Streets 
Riverside, Burlington County 
New Jersey 08075 
or WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
