Death, Old 
A Funeral 
‘The big disadvantage in trying to deal with undertakers is 
that they’ve got more experience with dead people than 
you have. A busy funeral director will supervise more 
funerals in a month than most of us even go to ina life- 
time. And merely going to a funeral is a very different 
order of business from being in charge of one. 
In my 32 years I’ve been involved in an intimate way with 
funerals of six relatives, my father, a brother, an uncle I 
was very close to, and three grandparents, two of them in 
the last year. But it was only my grandmother's funeral 
last January that I had full responsibility for. And the 
thing that amazed me was how little all my “experience” 
with funerals had prepared me for what I was now required 
to do. 
It wasn’t as if her death took me by surprise. She was 
hospitalized last July, a few months after her husband died. 
By Thanksgiving she couldn’t get out of bud. By Christmas 
pneumonia had complicated her already hopeless condition. 
She was almost 80. It was time for her to die. And yet, 
when it happened, I was no more prepared in any practical 
way than if she’d been suddenly killed in acar wreck. The 
price of that unpreparedness was winding up virtually 
powerless when, in my capacity as my grandmother's 
closest surviving relative, it came time to act as the 
“responsible” member of the family. 
Cremation wasn’t really one of my options. We'd been 
through a whole cremation thing last spring when my grand- 
father died, and the effects of it still loomed unpleasantly 
in the minds of the family members. My grandfather had 
wanted to be cremated. In fact, a few years before his 
death, he tried to involve me in a kind of conspiracy to see 
that it was done, knowing that his wife finally wouldn’t be 
able to. As it turned out, he was right. She told the under- 
taker to have it done. But the decision upset her so much, 
and upset other relatives, that at the last minute, after a 
night of wild and grotesque dreams on top of her already 
intense grief, she changed her mind. 
Do-It-Yourself Burial for $50 
Human bodies are an organic part of The WHOLE EARTH and at 
death must return to nourish the ongoing stream of life. Most of 
the billion dollars annually which Americans pay to the under- 
taking industry to dispose of corpses is sheer waste, both of money 
and of ever decreasing living space for posterity. 
Isn’t there some way,” | was asked by a widow," that two or three 
of us could dispose legally of the corpse for a few dollars? My 
husband’s death left us badly in debt but | had to go further in 
debt to pay a funeral director because | didn’t know what else 
| could do.” 
Contingency Planning is the essence of a Do-It-Y ourself. Funeral. 
What we need is not so much to escape the clutches of a profit- 
motivated business but to remove our own vulnerability by pre- 
paring to do ourselves what needs to be done. Actually in usual 
cases it is quite easy. Nothing very “professional” is required that 
any poor man or woman cannot do themselves. 
If you are going to act ‘‘in place of’’ a funeral director you have 
to get prepared well ahead and take charge immediately.. There is 
not time to learn the ropes after death occurs. One cannot just 
copy the writer’s experience, but | can give you aclose idea of 
what to expect. Then decide if you want to take the trouble or 
just pay a professional to do the work for you. 
The when and where and who of death is not always very predic- 
table. 
It is best to have a group plan for one’s family, church, 
union or commune. A burial committee of 3 persons, any one 
of whom can take charge, can be specified in one’s last instructions, 
just so no one is paid. 
Take this example (in California): 
The grandfather entered keenly into the project to set his whole 
family an example. When he died here is how we carried out his 
wishes: 
1) We got out his instructions which were left handy to get at. 
The other grown members of the family had each completed 
their own set of isntructions——or specified that the same ones 
be followed. Three of us, a son, grandson and uncle were named, 
any one of whom were authorized to act as his ‘funeral director.”” 
2) We went immediately to our County Health Department office 
of Vital Statistics and obtained a Certificate of Death form, show- 
ing our authorization to do so. We had already in advance obtained 
a copy of the form to familiarize ourselves with the information 
required. We filled in the details and 
3) Took it to the medical doctor who verified the facts of death to 
complete the technical questions. 
In cases requiring a coroner's 
action the latter would do that. 
4) Then the “person acting in place of” a funeral director completed 
the Death Certificate and returned it to the Registrar of Vital Stat- 
istics to become a part of the state’s permanent public records. 
We applied for a certified copy of that Death Certificate and paid 
the $2 fee. For another $1 we obtained a “Permit for Disposition 
of Human Remains.”” These are needed to satisfy a hospital, pos 
sible police inquiry and to assure the receiver that he is authorized 
to cremate. 
Friend 
Then, a little less than ten months later, she was dead too, 
lying in the same vault in the same funeral home her 
husband had occupied. And I was in charge of seeing to 
her burial. 
But of course I wasn’t really in charge. What was in charge 
was a set of attitudes whose origins stretch farther back in 
time than I can account for. It was a collective sense in the 
minds of all the people who participated in the funeral, as 
thick and as palpable as politics, and as difficult to wade 
through. Ostensibly, I could make any decision I wanted to. 
But I was also responsible to a lot of people very different 
from me, and that responsibility rang through my head like 
a dark mandate out of history. Bury her decently! 
Being conscious of motives my relatives were unconscious 
of was an overpowering feeling. The presence of death was 
touching levels of all our psyches in dark and mysterious 
ways. Something older than the mountains around us asked 
for our attention, and got it. We recognized it subtly, but 
with vast respect. With rituals, with totems, with words and 
_ gestures we paid homage to this ancient force left over 
among us from timeless old time ago. For all my “sophis- 
tication” and modernity, I was no more capable of tampering 
with such a force than I was of controlling the wind. Mean 
old death, sweet eternal life in Heaven with Jesus. Those 
were the terms. The body was the sacred object, the 
funeral a mystic ceremony to appease the dark unknown we 
felt surrounded by. Every time I'd have to make a decision, 
The Force would claim my tongue and say things I'd been 
determined not to say, until, by the time it was over, the 
funeral I'd arranged was virtually identical to the one my 
grandmother had arranged for my grandfather ten months 
earlier. That seems very far out to me. My grandmother 
was a child of the 19th century. In many ways I claim to 
be aman of the 21st. And yet, in the presence of death, 
among a clan of people surrounded by death, there was 
hardly any difference in our attitudes and behavior. I’m 
not sure what that means. But as I board Spaceship Earth 
for our cruise to the next century, it gives me pause. The 
vehicle is getting pretty fancy. But I wonder about the 
deeper mind of the members of the crew. 
6) We went home and got out the six foot box which we had made 
long before from odd bits of plywood for $5. The cheapest wooden 
casket sold for $85 but why waste it? Some places do not even 
require a box for cremation. 
7) After checking the crematory about delivery we took our box of 
remains there by pickup truck and handed over a check for $40, 
the local fee which elsewhere varies. We presented the two certifi- 
cates from the County Health office and signed the authorization 
to cremate. 
The crux of disposal is the requirement on all these forms that one 
must specify a legal (i.e. cemetery or columbarium) place of final 
interment by name and address. 
In practice this means another 
$150 or more for a plot or niche. Even strewing ashes at sea is made 
ridiculously complicated and costly——to discourage it. The lobby 
~ 
of the industry in this state has so far defeated all attempts at 
funeral reform which would permit relatives to keep the ashes at 
home or to strew them in the family garden or at a public (outside 
city limits) park or seashore. You may find that where you live it 
is perfectly legal to do this. 
8) However, in this case Grandpa ordered his ‘‘funeral directors” 
verbally to finish his wishes as follows: 
a) fill in the name of a cemetery back in his home 
town to satisfy the statistical requirement. 
b) take personal custody of the ashes for delivery 
in a little box we made. 
c) then later scatter the ashes on the Sierra as he had 
privately ordered. 
: 
Most people would rather “pay the piper,” even though they feel 
that final regulation is ridiculous and exploitative—-—rather than 
be forced to subterfuge. However, these last wishes were com- 
plied with discreetly and privately and no questions have arisen 
in this or other similar cases. 
¥ 
To complete this example | must report that two Sundays later 
— 
friends and relatives gathered for a jolly memorial feast, to which 
all contributed, in honor of our departed. The full amount payable 
in ‘death benefits,” $1000, the deceased left in a scholarship 
savings account for a couple of his grandchildren. 
For your further study get through WHOLE EARTH CATALOG 
Ernest Morgan’s ‘Manual of Simple Burial,’ an excellent guide 
to lots of other business that needs attending to at the time of a 
death. Also join with others who are already organized to handle 
death simply and with dignity. The Continental Association of 
Funeral and Memorial Societies at 59 East Van Buren Street, 
Chicago, |!linois 60605 can direct you to one of their non-profit 
» 
member societies near you, to which millions of families and indi- 
viduals belong. Their voluntary elected officers can help you, as 
they did us, to make your own family death contingency plans. 
The most popular procedure up to now seems to be an arrangement 
with local funeral directors who co-operate with a Memorial Society 
in providing minimal disposal service $150 and up plus another $150 
or so for a cemetery plot or columbarium niche. However, in the 
example given total burial costs were $48. 
Anton Nelson 
