The Use of Propane 
How to Propel Your Car with Propane 
An \|mmediate Personal Action for Cleaner Air 
(reprinted from Freedom News, February 1970) 
In addition to long range cultural change, Ecology Action is interested 
in immediate personal actions aimed at waging war on environmental 
problems. In this endeavor we attempt to practice what we preach, 
and to that end have begun converting the vehicles upon which we 
must occasionally rely to propane gas (also butane). 
We have culled the following information from Imperial Rock Gas of 
Richmond. 
If you’re interested in doing something about air and water pollution 
now, and drive a gasoline fueled, internal combustion engine vehicle, 
convert to propane. Conversion is a simple, financially beneficial 
operation which reduces your vehicle’s harmful emissions by 50%. 
Some estimates go as high as 75% to 80% reduction in harmful 
emissions. 
There are other ways to reduce your personal impact on the environ- 
ment, of course, and several alternatives to pouring gasoline wastes 
into the eco-system. 
Walking is the best alternative of all, and 
public transportation use reduces your impact. 
Gas turbines, steam driven and electric engines all produce less harm- 
ful exhausts than the present gasoline engine, but these alternatives 
are not possible ones for most people, for a variety of reasons. 
Electric, steam and gas turbines cannot be made available to any 
significant number of persons soon enough. 
Propane is different. 
You can go to a local propane dealer who 
does conversions and have your car running on propane in one 
day. That’s how long it normally takes. 
The cost is approximately $300 from which you can shave substantial 
amounts in a variety of ways. Labor costs about $40, but the job is 
simple enough so that anyone with rudimentary mechanical know- 
ledge can do it. 
How it Works: 
Basically: A special carburetor replaces the air 
filter; a heat exchanger is mounted under the hood and connected 
to the water hose that runs to the heater; a fuel line must be run to 
the tank which is usually mounted in the trunk. 
This last item, the tank, is the single most expensive aspect, costing 
$120—$180 for a new tank capable of holding 24-36 gallons of fuel. 
A used tank often costs less than half as much, so shopping around 
for one is worthwhile. 
Even with these cuts in cost, however, the average American car 
owner may not feel he can afford conversion. 
But, as economists 
point out, cost is a relative concept against which we must pose 
benefits, and the benefits of propane are substantial. 
First, as previously mentioned, the use of propane cuts harmful 
emissions by 50%, thus reducing air rollution directly and water 
pollution indirectly (hydrocarbons and other exhaust products are 
inevitably washed off the road by rain or precipitated out of the 
air). 
Another benefit is that the use of propane can increase the life of a 
new engine from 2—10 years. According to Mr. Carl Warner of 
Model Rockets 
Model rockets, you say, what are they . 
. 
. idealizations of 
instruments of war? Not at all. They are idealizations of 
one of man’s primal urges, mastery of the skies. 
In practice model rocketry is safe (remote control firing, 
parachute recovery), inexpensive (average costs: engines—— 
25¢, vehicles-—$2.50), scientific (limitless opportunity for 
creative one-man research), and great fun. Practical appli- 
cations include smog sampling, weather studies and aerial 
photography. Model rocketry supplies became available as 
a safe and meaningful alternative to the dangerous “’Base- 
ment Bomber” activities of amatuer rocket builders impressed 
by the first Sputniks in the late 1950's. The National 
Association of Rocketry was formed to promote safe and 
educational model rocketry activities among manufacturers 
and enthusiasts. 
Free 
National Association of Rocketry 
Box 178 
McLean, Virginia 22101 
The inexpensive NAR member-ship includes a subscription 
Brochure: 
to Model Rocketry Magazine, an independent and outstanding 
monthly mag produced by MIT students during their free 
time. Coverage ranges from elementary How-To articles to 
the unbelievably esoteric. Standard magazine format and 
circulation but it is managed as a sort of commune. 
All 
profit goes into an informal fund used for research and 
financing field trips to regional flying competitions and 
NASA events. Typical articles explain model rocket appli- 
cations in tracking systems, telemetry, aerial photography, 
and activities in the Soviet Union, a country which long 
ago realized the educational aspects of model rocketry. 
Subscription available separate from NAR membership. 
$5.00 (for one year, monthly) 
Model Rocketry Magazine 
Box 214 
Boston, Massachusetts 02123 
There are nearly a dozen manufacturers of kits and parts to 
choose from, but ESTES and.CENTURI are consistently 
the best. There are many similarities between these two, 
but their differences are striking. Estes is the venerable 
{mperial Rock Gas in Richmond, forklift truckers, who have used 
propane for many years because of its lower emissions and the 
enclosed, indoor nature of much of their work, claim at least a 
5—2 ratio of improved engine life. This is because, in part, the 
propane enters the engine as a gas, not as’a liquid, and sludge and 
carbon are essentially eliminated. 
Fuel Cost is Lower: 
Still another benefit of propane cost is fuel 
cost. Only one grade of propane is distributed: 
a high octane 
grade comparable to high test gasoline. The cost, in the Bay Area, 
is about twenty-four cents per gallon. Though the per gallon mileage 
of propane is about 3% less than gasoline, the consumer still saves 
a considerable amount, which, even excluding longer engine life, 
makes propane conversion profitable over the long run. 
Cal Gas of Sacramento claims other propane benefits: cuts main- 
tenance costs; cleaner oil; longer spark plug life——no carbon to 
foul spark plugs; instant cold weather starting——no flooding or 
choking of carburetor; 
fuel pump problems eliminated because 
there is no fuel pump. 
Another consideration the potential propane converter makes is the 
availability of the fuel. Most cities of 50,000 or more have propane 
supply outlets. National and state listings are available from gas 
companies usually on request. 
" 
But even without careful planning the propane motorist need not 
fear being stranded without fuel, for the standard conversion oper- 
ation leaves the vehicle with a gasoline potential which may be 
realized by flipping a dashboard switch. Just keep a small amount 
of gasoline in your car. 
A few other considerations: If your car is air cooled (for example, 
Volkswagens) about $20 extra must be spent for adaptive equipment. 
The higher the compression ratio of your engine the more efficiently 
it will run on propane (compression usually corresponds to engine 
size and number of cylinders but not always, so check your owner's 
manual). 
; 
Pressure Conversion: 
In addition to converting your own car, you 
can take a step toward lessening pollution by encouraging other 
individuals, industry and government to convert. Some steps have — 
been proposed already in this area, e.g., Reagan’s claim that state 
vehicles were to be converted and recently publicized intentions of 
Contra Costa vehicle conversions. Concerned individuals should keep 
track of these intentions. 
|f you want better quality air and water enough to do something, 
but don’t think you can afford the initial cash outlay for conversion, 
you might consider trading in your present car for one worth about 
$300 less and use the difference. You'll make it back in gas savings. 
Further, remember that propane is only a partial and interim solution 
to pollution, Even with a converted car, you still are responsible for 
concrete highways, noise, congestion, Santa Barbara oil leaks and 
Torrey Canyon shipwrecks. The answers to these problems lie with 
UNIGUE ROCKETRY 
pioneer, but it stresses bold innovations such as flexible 
landing gear and unbelievably inexpensive kits for aerial 
photography cameras (Still camera: $4.00!). Soon to come 
out with a motion picture camera suitable for use in flying 
models... less than $20... WOW!) 
Centuri is noted for kits of handsomely detailed scale 
models and formidable power of their larger engines. 
Centuri, like Estes, has a well developed educational services 
program where free textbooks and discount prices are offered 
to any sort of reasonably legitimate educators such as 
teachers, Boy Scout leaders and Civil Air Patrolers. Both 
are mail order orientated, with excellent personalized 
service. The safe and inexpensive engines of all manufacturers 
are standardized and interchangeable. Estes and Centuri 
each send free newsletters to regular customers. 
Model rocketry is a going thing, not only because it 
offers an opportunity for inexpensive creative research 
into the relatively unexplored field of sub-sonic rocketry, 
but because it is a fun way to participate in the Space Age. 
Catalog: 25¢ 
Catalog: 25¢ 
Estes Industries, Inc. 
Century Engineering Co. . 
Box 227 
Box 1988 
Penrose, Colo. 81240 
Phoenix, Ariz. 85001 
Melville G. Boyd 
Midwest City, Okla 
1. Label the model rocket components 
that are marked in 
the following diagram. 
a deeper commitment to a quality life; with walking and relearning 
the joys of bicycle riding. 
Distributed as a public service by Ecology Action Educational Institute 
Box 9334 
Thi 
me 
% 
Berkeley, California 94709 
Phone: 
(415) 843-1820 
— 
a 
a 
e 
e 
/ have heard of a new car dealer who is using a free propane — 
conversion as a way to boost sales of his left over 1969 
models, 
(Hillsdale Dodge in San Mateo, spec. He also 
= 
tries to sell a propane conversion with all new car sales 
($500 per) by giving the customer a stiff lecture about 
civic duty and air pollution.—Fred 
Seg. 
a 
Ee 
At least twenty PG&E service trucks fueled by clean-burning 
— 
natural gas will soon be operating in the San Jose area on a- 
S| 
trial basis. 
: 
“as 
If the test vehicles prove out well, additional PG&E service — oh a 
trucks in major metropolitan areas may be equipped witha 
= 
dual fuel system: simply by pulling a dashboard lever, the = 
driver can switch from natural gas to areserve supply of 
gasoline. ... 
Se 
aed 
Motor vehicles are responsible for about two thirds orthe 
 — 
contaminants in the air over the San Francisco basin, according 
— 
to the Bay Area Pollution Control District. Tests have ~~ 
a 
shown-that motor vehicles using natural gas have reduced 
re 
the emission of certain pollutants from their exhausts by 
as much as 90 per cent. 
So far, the use of natural gas in vehicles is suitable primarily — 
for fleet operations because of the expense of the large 
; 
compressor needed to compress the gas into tanks and the us 
weight—— 140 pounds each——of the steel tanks them- 
Rae 
selves. 
... 
Zp 
In addition to helping reduce air pollution, the natural gas- 
powered vehicles are expected to be more economical to 
operate. While the mileage and power are roughtly 
e 
comparable to that offered by high test gasoline, the 
oe 
clean burning qualities of 130-octane natural gas will 
ae 
mean less frequent spark plug changes and fewer engine 
— 
: 
overhauls. 
... 
Natural gas-fueled vehicles are regarded as a partial solution 
to automotive smog; one that is available now. Thestate 
i 
and federal governments and PG&E and other industries 
have announced 
their intention to convert vehiclesto 
natural gas and experts predict that refinements of the 
_ 
system will develop as the result of these tests. 
From PG&E Progress, March 1970. 
