a age em 
Noumedia Tapes 
We're a new company assembling a tape recorded library of 
speakers on the subjects of human growth, humanistic psychology 
and conscious awakening. Our work grew out of a shared experience 
in human communication manifesting in the evolution of man’s 
psyche. 
We intend to commit profits not only to the needs of NOUMEDIA 
but to concerns such as the Bucks County Fellowship Fund suppor- 
ting the work of Ram Dass and others. We invite your interest in 
this also. 
We look forward to serving you. 
COMMUNICATION IN PEACE 
. NOUMEDIA CO. 
= 
George Fisher 
Their list includes tapes by Baba Ram Dass, William Shutz, 
Frederick Perls, Alexander Lowen, Margaret Mead, and 
others. Prices range from $8.50—$16.40. For a complete 
list & prices, write to Noumedia Co., Box 750, Port Chester, 
N. Y. 10573 
Neil B. Wolf Suggests 
I’ve just finished this very informative book and it seems to 
fit quite well into the Whole Earth scheme of things. 
It’s 
simply called Bows and Arrows. 
\t was originally published 
in 1923 as A Study of Bows and Arrows. The University of 
California Press had the good foresight to reprint in 1962. 
Saxton T. Pope, the author, became friends with the last 
surviving member of the Yahi indian tribe (which | believe 
was a California culture) in 1911 when the indian, Ishi, came 
to San Francisco. 
Ishi stimulated Pope’s interest in archery 
and demonstrated for him the Yahi method of making bows 
and arrows. The arrows which Ishi made proved to be 
superior in flight to all others mentioned eee the 
book. 
P. S. Anyone starting a health food store will be interested 
in Organic Merchants. They have a free school for such 
people. Their “name is a statement of intent, not a claim to 
fame.’” They propose ‘’Cooperative buying in large quantities 
for better prices; contracting growers to grow foods by strict 
organic methods; supervising suppliers to assure consumers 
that the highest standards of quality are achieved; creating a 
warehousing and distribution system that will eventually 
insure the availability of the highest quality natural foods in 
every part of the nation and, through this cooperative method 
of acting as their own middlemen, offering these foods at 
low prices; creating a laboratory which will do soil analysis 
for home and commercial organic growers and analysis of all 
products for pesticide residues.’’ ‘No Organic Merchant will 
sell anything containing the following: white sugar, bleached 
white flour, synthetic sugar and salt substitutes, artificial 
flavor, artificial color, preservatives emulsifiers or other 
synthetics, corn syrup, cottonseed products, monosodium 
glutamate.”” Their cause is our cause, and is one to which we 
must learn to become dedicated. OM. (Organic Merchants, 
1326 9th Avenue, S.F., CA 94122) Write for brochure. 
Neil B. Wolf 
Ketchum, Idaho 
Free Lumber, Hardware, Etc. 
Many mills in Northern Calif. Being closed down in areas 
that have been logged out. Mill buildings made of redwood, 
heavy timbers, corrugated tin can be gotten for the effort 
of dismanteling & hauling away. We built two small houses 
that way with a little help from our friends. Glass for 
~ windows from wrecked V. W. Buses. 
Best Wishes 
Steve Jordan 
The Sea Ranch, CA 
Make Movies 
We just made a movie on pollution and the San Francisco 
Bay, and no one here has ever even heard of Gary Snyder. 
“Ecology” is in danger of becoming a commercial catch- 
phrase an general pacifier. Am trying to turn people on 
to quiet watching inward, seeing pictures of the world- 
earth there. 
If | can just get people to dig what Snyder 
is saying, we might make some nice movies again. 
Anybody who has a thing he wants to see a movie made 
of (or about)——send the idea to me, too. Shit, it’s 
amazing what things finally get made as movies. 
Do right. 
Smile. 
Joe Valentine 
c/o King Screen Prod. 
500 Aurora No. 
Seattle, Wash. 98109 
Parchment 
Good Trips... 
The William Cowley Parchment Works, Newport Pagnell, 
Bucks, England, supplies Sheepskin Parchment & Calfskin 
vellum for about 1.2¢ to 2.5¢ a square inch. This is 1/2 
to 1/3 less than anything | have found in the US. & the 
quality is extremely fine. 
Richard F. Wheeler 
Portland, Oregon 
Forms in Japan 
a suggestion: 
FORMS IN JAPAN 
Yuichiro Kojiro 
i 
translated by Kenneth Yasuda, photos by Yukio Futagawa 
1965; 184 pp. 
from/published by East-West Center Press, Honolulu 
a very beautiful book about forms commonly found in Japan 
with an emphasis on the characteristic of the human spirit that 
created them: 
forms of unity 
forms of force 
forms of adaptation 
forms of change 
generous photos (often double page) 
forceful, concise and poetic text. 
has to do with combs, tea pots, folded paper things, stepping 
stones, plank floors, flutes and windows, hoes and bows and 
sails, toys, brooms, rice heaps, roofs, ladders, beams and fish 
nets, etc. etc. the net effect is: you begin look more closely 
at the fork you eat with, the way you wrap a package or roll 
a joint, the way you stack wood, or arrange the food on your 
plate. 
price is perhaps a bind 
$15.00 hardbound 
but well worth a communal effort. 
try to check it out. 
tom green 
Washington, D.C. 
Martin B. Tittle Suggests 
Frigistors, Ltd., 5770 Andover Avenue, Montreal, Quebec. Maker 
of solid-state cooling elements: 
blocks of bismuth-telluride joined 
by metal bars pump heat from one side of the ‘’pack’’ 
when electricity is applied, leaving one side cold. A contact plate 
ss 
on the cold side and a heat sink with fan on the other and you're 
= 
in business. 3 kits of increasing dimensions and prices available 
Information dated 1965. Lots of free info and engineering data 
avail. 
Amglo Corporation, 4333 N. Ravenswood Avenue, Chicago, III. 
filled with rare gases: xenon, neon, krypton, etc. All equipment 
necessary for prototyping and fooling around available. Custom 
work as well as ready-made stuff. Engineering manual with 
theory, products and circuits on request. 
Info dated 1965. 
Product cost: from $1.50 up. 
Bensen Aircraft Corp., Raleigh-Durham Airport, Raleigh, N.C. 
27602. Makers of Gyrocopters, Gyrogliders for use over land 
and Hydrocopters and Hydrogliders over water. A one-man 
type copter which combines the most desirable features of a 
modern helicopter and an autogyro. 20-ft. two-blade rotor is 
free-wheeling. 
Avail. in kits. Construction plans with building 
and flying manuals available separately. Prices: 
Gyroglider: 
$395; -copter: $950 without engine. 
Superior Marketing Equipment Company, 1800 Larchmont Ave., 
Chicago, II. Makers of rotary printing presses and related 
equipment and supplies. Rubber type in varying fonts, with 
picture dies, etc. Good for small tabloid-type newspaper or 
for printing notices. Inexpensive. 3 presses avail. Can be used 
to make rubber stamps of any size. 
Basic Crafts Co., 312 East 23rd St., NYC 10010. Equipment and 
supplies for bookbinding. Tool kit, $30, supplies kit, $40, etc. 
Everything you need. 
The ‘Casual’ Portable Copier, a dry, electric photocopier avail 
from 3M Company (Box 3126, St. Paul, Minn. 55101) for $70 
with 14-day free trial. Avail only by mail. Free lit on request 
at above address, 
Zuckerman Harpsichords, 115 Christopher St., NYC. Harpsichord 
and clavichord kits. Clavichord parts: $100; Harpsichord parts: 
as $150. Single manual, single strung. Free lit and recording on 
request. 
2» 
Re-Con Systems Corp., 342 Madison Ave., NYC 10017. Computer 
ss job-finding center for college graduates. The whole deal is free; 
HH employers pay them to find people. 
= Billotti Trinome Corp., P. O. Box 729, NYC. A rhythm metronome 
ss which combines 3 dissimilar beats into variable rhythmical patterns. 
ss Example; divides a set length of time into four equal parts with a 
$= bell, five equal parts with a light click, and six equal parts with 
ss a dull click, all simultaneously. Available from Targ and Dinner, 
= Inc., 2451 N. Sacramento Ave., Chicago 60647. 
= Cousino Electronics Corp., 1941 Franklin Ave., Toledo, Ohio. 
s 
Ph. 246-3691 
Makers of Audio-Vendor, offering continuous play- 
onto itself. Avail in time playing from 3 min. to 30 min. at 3-% 
inches/sec. Used for sleep-learning and therapy, broadcasting, 
teaching, and sales. from $6.15 to $19.95. Free info. 
Grace Tea Company, Ltd., 79 Wall St., NYC. Ph. DI 4—0137. 
Importers of ‘superb and rare teas for the connoisseur’. They 
import in bulk and repackage, thus avoiding high duties on 
individual containers. Wide variety, prompt service, good tea. 
: Around $2.50 to $3.00 per %-Ib. 
Frank Drew, 2899 S. 6th St., Klamath Falls, Oregon 97601. 
Handles Western type clothes, including Pendleton-brand. 
Nice, 
many times somewhat expensive. 
Free catalog. 
Martin B. Tittle 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 
to the other 
for prototyping and fooling around. Lowest price kit around $125. 
ss 
Ph. BU1—2727. Makers of clear envelopes of varying configurations 
back from recorded tape. Single spool! of tape unwinds and rewinds 
Larry McCombs Suggests 
\'d agree with Shaw that the Chicago Manual of Style 
is an excellent 
reference; it’s devoted more to matters of usage and manuscript 
preparation, while Lee’s book has a lot more info on how the 
printer actually turns your manuscript into a book. Half of the 
Chicago book is devoted to samples of various typefaces, which is 
extremely useful when you want to show the printer how some- 
_thing should look. 
I'd say they complement each other, and you 
really ought to have both; you need Lee to find out what they’re 
talking about when they start asking you what kind of binding you 
want, or whether you need color separation, or other things that 
involve the actual book-making process, or when you’re trying to 
figure out whether you can get the effect you want with offset. 
U.S.G.S. also has fantastic aerial photos of lots of places; you.can 
get monstrous blow-ups for next to nothing. This service is hard to 
get by mail, and may not be available at all of the Distribution 
Centers. You kind of have to go in and explain what you want, 
browse through indexes, look at sample prints, and then wait a 
couple of weeks while they make you acopy. 
If you dig 3-d 
maps, you ought to get a catalog from A. J. Nystrom of Chicago, 
who make many groovy things. Jeppeson & Co. makes a ‘natural 
color shaded relief map of the U. S. ‘’ which is the best I’ve ever 
seen for getting a sense of the land (1 haven't seen the one they 
sell, so |1’m not sure what overprinting it has; the base map is the 
one that we used in our |DP earth science program, and it's 
gorgeous without any culture or political marks at all——this is 
what we started with!); $2.50 each, with 10% discount on quantities 
of 10. 
U. S. Geological Highway Map Series. American Association of 
Petroleum Geologists, P. O. Box 979, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74101. Set © 
of 11 maps showing geology with highways and other cultural 
locating-yourself features, with cross-sections, physiographic maps, 
and diagrams on geologic history. Superb guides for figuring out 
what's been happening to the earth around the spot you're at; clear, 
concise, and should make sense to anybody. $1 folded; $1.50 
rolled (I’m not sure whether that’s the price per each or for the 
whole set; | assume the former). 
Now here’s a gadget that ought to be useful for something. 
It’s 
called the Burgess De Luxe Vibra-Graver, and Ward's Natural Science 
Establishment, Box 1749, Monterey, CA 93940, lists it as a tool for 
chipping fossils out of the rocks; it has a tantalum carbide peint 
which vibrates away at 7200 strokes per minute with adjustable 
stroke length; operates on 115-volt, 60-cycle AC. Costs $12.95. 
A diamond point for tougher work costs an extra $7.50. Now 
what could you do with that? 
D. W. Brunton’s Patent Pocket Transit. A marvelous precision 
gadget that includes a compass, level, clinometer, plumb, and 
alidade——you can use it for just about any kind of surveying that 
doesn’t require tripod accuracy. 
!t weighs 9 ounces, and closes 
up to a little indestructable metal package about 3”’ x 3” x 1". 
It costs about $60, but it'll last a lifetime. 
| dropped mine off a 
' 20-foot cliff one time, and it wasn’t even scratched. Ward's 
‘carries this also, as would almost any supply house, | suppose. 
Also for kids, I'd recommend a set of records by Jim Copp & 
Ed Brown on Playhouse Records (Box 36061, L.A. 36). They 
write their own stories and do all sorts of Jovely sound effects. 
. Enjoyable for little kids or adults; not at all condescending, and 
' rather with it. 
In addition to Sesame Street, anybody with access to Educational 
TV should dig Misterogers’ Neighborhood. 
Rogers seems a bit over- 
sincere and swishy at first, but after you've watched him for a while, 
you see that he’s really being very straight with kids. His programs 
have a lot of sound psychology behind them, and are designed to help 
kids deal with the world without bombarding them with morals or 
preaching. 
For example, there’s Mister McFeely, the Speedy Delivery 
Man, who is a charactacture (how the hell do you spell that word 
anyhow?) of all the busy adults who never have time for anything, 
and King Friday the 13th who represents the pompous adult that 
always wants things done just according to the rules. The incidents 
create situations in which these people cause problems, and you see 
how all the other characters deal with them. There’s a lot of emphasis 
on talking about feelings, and understanding why you get mad or sad, 
and how to dig it. Well, it’s hard to describe, but | think this and 
Sesame Street (and perhaps Newsroom) are the only problems 
consistently worth watching on television, for kids or adults. 
Misterogers also has some records out of his songs on Small World 
Records (761 Two Gateway Center, Pittsburgh 15222). Very good. 
Larry McCombs 
Oakland, CA 
Bat Glider Plans 
Supplier: 
Quest Publishing Co. 
P.O. Box 7115 
Amarillo, Texas 79109 
Additional Information: 
These are plans for a man carrying glider for soaring down 
-from the heights. | know nothing about these particular 
plans yet, but the concept is quite sound. 
(1 am a senior 
aerospace engineering student.) 
If the military doesn’t 
find me, | will build one of these gliders and write an 
evaluation for you. To quote a review in March, 1970 
Sport Flying, 
How about a glider for a total outlay of about $20.00 cash? Well, 
if this sounds like fun, you might try this simple hand glider. 
It 
y 
goes together in hours and will supply hours of endless fun. All 
you need is some bamboo or aluminum tubes, reinforced plastic 
tape, some plastic sheeting, and a gentle slope with a tad of breeze. 
A quick flying lesson is incorporated on the plans. Sounds like a 
gas for the adventurous. No flying certificate required. [my italics] 
This must be the grooviest way to get high since Harry 
Anslinger discovered grass. Hope you can use the tip. 
Stephen L. edna 
Austin, Texas 
