High School Underground Paper 
Dear Friends, 
Bob Freeston at CADRE said you might be listing 
the ‘‘How to Start a high school underground’’ pamphlet 
in your catalogue. //t was listed in January 70 $1 Catalog] 
Could you please either say it either costs 6¢ (in stamp) 
“or ask people to enclose money or stamps to help cover 
postage if they can. | hadn’t expected the pamphlet to 
get around too much, but it’s been mentioned in several 
places & the postage is really starting to hurt. (I'd rather 
you made the payment optional, like in the 2nd choice, 
if you can.) 
In Peace & Liberation 
John Schuller 
530 N. Brainard Street 
\ 
Naperville, Illinois 60540 
Here Comes the Harley 
On this general subject——reviewers liked Jawas & BMWs. 
OK, BUT, did you ever try to find metric tools in Peach 
Springs Ariz (you won't.) The answer is the elderly 
Harley Davidson, basically a piece of farm machinery & 
consequently very durable, reparable with standard Amer- 
ican tools available everywhere——and generally easier to 
find parts for in the sticks than most other bikes: Pre-’58’s 
have very low saddles, enabling short-legged girls to straddle 
them comfortably, a blow for women’s liberation. You can 
find them cheap everywhere, (oh yes——also, you can put 
lots of weight on them & they'll still go, without wobbling) 
AND since they’re hard to ride in the dirt they are less 
likely to wind up defacing the off-the-road spaces than 
small machines. 
Stuart Allan 
King City, CA 
Starmaker 
One note about Star Maker——\ am deeply convinced that 
- 
Stapledon was on the right track, that the universe he describes 
comes very close, via metaphor and myth, to something which 
must be analogous to the “‘real’’ universe. Imagine what a book 
he could have written had he known certain recent developments 
in astronomy. 
¢ 
: 
5 
1) stars with planets are probably much commoner than Stapledon 
supposes, and planets are formed, not by ‘‘chance meeting,” but as 
part of the normal evolution of a star. 
\ 
2) If, 
as Fred Hogle has suggested, it is a property of space to 
generate hydrogen atoms, then the universe is in a ‘‘steady state." 
(i.e. it was the same, is the same, and ever shall be the same.) About 
- 
- one atom per cubic meter per million years would be enough to 
fill in the gaps left by the retreating galaxies. 
3) If the universe which 
we inhabit is in a “steady state,’’ then the 
cosmic mind already exists, all we have to do is plug in. Of course, 
it may be possible that only a minded world could “plug in’’ forever 
——but we know that individuals in lesser worlds do it occasionally. 
4) It is possible that time is a line in the plane of eternity. 
It is also 
possible that time is a circle, in which case to say a thing happened 
once and to say it happened infinitely many times are equivalent. 
It is also possible that time is a spiral in which the same things happen 
over and over but on new levels——like taking a puzzle apart and 
fitting the pieces back together to find that you have a more beau- 
tiful picture. 
It is also possible that time is the intersection of two 
planes of eternity .... 
jenny deupree 
. 
Davis, CA 
In the Woods. 
We've been hitchhiking, living in woods, cities, just about always 
sleeping out for close to 2 years now. 
Very much into anything 
human, beautiful and combinations of these two. We have very 
much enjoyed catalog and want to go over with you some items in 
catalog and suggest some new ones. 
Since we always camp and live out of kelty packs we have bee: 
interested in all books and equipment. | first would like to go over 
camping stores. We have been in most and know some thoroughly. 
i 
i 
1) Camp and Trail Outfitters 
(in catalog)——| used to live in N.Y.C. 
and had down sleeping from them. The bags were fair but anyone 
who is a human being would have hard time dealing with old man 
who runs place, Definitely not a good place and definitely not 
“beloved” of anywhere. 
| can see how in past he might be put in 
for never were other stores with down equip. etc. Now that's 
changed. There is a store (actually it has been there at least 2 
years but still is not known) Greenman’s on Spring St. lower 
manhattan, They have full range of camping equipment. Carry 
lots of stuff from Sierra Design. Note! have snowshoes made by 
“Snoecraft” in N. Y. State that have elastic type of plastic flat 
lacing instead of leather——much better. 
| haven‘t seen them 
any other place but could be wrong. Try to review them and 
please take out Camp and Trail——they are a dishonor to catalog. 
2) Eddie Bauer (in catalog)——he is essentially a high-class 
sporting goods store for hunters, etc.. The only 2 things worth 
mentioning are the things vou do——flotation suit (sounds and 
looks good——! don't kno. 
how good) and down equipment. 
Potters Wheel 
| read with interest the letters about Potters wheels in the 
Jan. Catalog. I’m not familiar with either the Soldner or 
the Klopfenstein wheels, but | make a kick wheel in Berkeley 
that | think is a very good deal. 
I’ve sold a number of them 
and had very good reports. 
If you want to look at one or get references or more infor- 
mation please give mé a call. 
. 
All the wheels have been sold locally, but | don’t see any 
reason why | couldn't ship them anywhere. 
SPECIFICATIONS: 
FLYWHEEL: 
Reinforced concrete. 27 in. Dia 3.5 in. shiek: 170 lb. 
SHAFT: 1 in. Dia. Solid steel bar. 
HEAD: 
12 in. Dia.; .25 in. thick steel plate. 
BEARINGS: 
Lower: Low friction sealed ball; Upper: Babbitt bushing 
FRAME: Construction grade douglas fir; Seat and table: Exterior 
grade plywood. 
: 
DIMENSIONS: 44 in. long; 36 in. wide; 29 in. high. 
Seat and table are detachable. 
PRICE: $80 at the factory. 
If delivery is required, the charge is 
$5 plus 15 cents per mile both ways plus bridge tolls. 
GUARANTEE: 
Free labor and parts at the factory for 2 years 
from date of purchase for defects due to normal use. For service 
calls you pay mileage and bridge tolls. 
Paul Lipton 
1624 Virginia Street 
Berkeley, CA 94703 
549-0368 
The Environment Monthly 
We are terse and expensive, true enough. Starting with 
our second year, in June, we will still be expensive but 
maybe a better buy. That is because | am importuning 
some great kinds of people to write something called 
The Environment Monthly Necessary Papers. They will 
be issued from time to time, as they are forthcoming, to 
_ 
all of you regulars. John N. Cole, editor of the Maine 
Times and a throwback of a splendid environmentalist, 
will write the first Necessary Paper. 
| forgot to tell you. For the last couple of months we 
have been offering Environment Monthly to students 
for $12.50 a year, and wish it could be even less. We tell 
them we don’t mind if they pass the hat in the dorm, 
' either. Just so long as the subscriber of record is an 
honest-to-god student. 
That's all for now. 
Sincerely, 
William Houseman 
New York, N. Y. 
The Environment Monthly 
$35 /year 
from: 
The Environment Monthly 
420 Lexington Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10017 
Latter is mainly a myth. His down equip is good but not near the 
best. Gives bad data for temp ranges and famous Everst jacket 
isn't worth the money. 
esp for the weight. Second best down 
jacket has cold seams which he says don’t matter until -30 or -40. 
But if high wind? or emergency bivouac? 
| just don’t believe it—— 
maybe I’m wrong. Anyway at least don’t recommend rest of 
catalog. 
3) Holubar (Boulder, Colo.) (not in cat.) as good as Rec. Equip, 
Ski Hut, and better for a few things. We buy our down equip 
from them | think (although not positive with changing field) 
that they make best (and most expensive) sleeping bag in world—— 
and down jacket easily on par with others if not better. We 
have both. Sleep. bag is for real winter camping. Cost $150 
+ $30 for liner and cover; has about 3% Ib. down and 135 down 
compartments. 
Well made and has down collar that pulls tight 
around shoulders—— fantastic. Hoods also pulls around head—— 
bag good for -50 - 60°. Have used our bags 6 out of 7 months 
we've had them in all too warm temp. ——damp packing etc. 
and they still puff up fine when dried. All their down bags 
are good and can have collar added. 
\f not for collar might 
seriously look at Sierra Design or Ski Hut bag but——still don’t 
think as good. Bags weigh with liner and cover over 7 |bs—— 
alot but in winter extreme cold, worth it. Coats are excellent 
with zipper and snaps and excellent hood. They must be in 
catalog. 
4) Alp Sport (Boulder) (not in cat.) good place but not 
into them very much. Should review. Had their 4-man 
exped. tent. similar to one by Rec. Equip. but not too. 
We have Warmolite Stephenson tent so I'm biased. 
From a Chemist 
| think that in a few cases you are listing and recommending 
items that are completely unsuited to your readers and may 
even be dangerous. Asa chemist | think that the Handbook 
of Chemistry and Physics is invaluable, but to a person 
untrained in chemistry and physics and who is not actually 
using these disciplines, the book would be almost a complete 
waste of money. And anyone who can use it already knows 
about it, so-you are wasting space. The same arguments 
apply to the two Merk books but even more so because 
these could well be dangerous in the hands of an untrained 
person. These are medical and pharmaceutical references, 
meant for people who are trained to know the precautions 
that must be taken, and even they often make mistakes, as 
I’m sure you know. | am also sure some of your readers 
will think you are offering books on do-it-yourself medicine, 
and if so you may one day be responsible for someone’s 
death. 
Morton A. Klotz 
Placerville, CA 
Island Fantasy 
Kieth D. Gilbert's Island Fantasy in Depth in the Jan. WEC is no 
doubt very salutary for combating stir-madness, but he overlooks 
some homely facts. 
It is not easy to immigrate to Canada anymore. You must have a 
trade that is in high demand here. Or you can come as @visitor, 
get a job offer, then apply for landed immigrant status. 
But descend 
en-masse on the border saying you've come to set-up a commune on 
the Queen Charlottes, live off the land and apply for social assistance 
if you can't make it, and they will call up the militia. 
| will state 
flatly, it can’t be done. The best bet for an individual might be to 
immigrate ‘‘properly’”’ then join one of the Canadian communes 
already started. 
Maybe your group could sneak across the border 
Or immigrate one at a time with forged apprenticeship papers as 
heavy duty equipment mechanics. 
As for working on a fish-boat or even riding on one, forget it. 
Everyone aboard a fish boat must have a commercial license, 
usually be a union member. To get a license you must be able 
to prove you are a Canadian citizen or a British subject. 
|t takes 
five years and a judge’s approval to become a citizen. A landed 
immigrant is not a British subject. 
Gilbert's racist remark is unfortunate. There are many blacks 
in Canada, possibly some on the Queen Charlottes. They have 
the same legal rights as anybody, whatever that’s worth. 
| 
should imagine it is no more or less difficult to be a black among 
whites here than it is in the States. 
And big dogs don’t deal with bears, bears deal with big dogs. 
Carry a carbine. 
Tom Tarr 
N. Van., B.C. 
The canadian immigration department practically requires 
that a prospective immigrant have assurance of a Job, 
evidenced by a letter from the employer, along with a 
bank statement (savings book, etc.) showing sufficient 
funds to support ones self and family for a year or SO, a 
couple of thousand will do. some folks have done this 
by borrowing such a sum, depositing it in a bank, getting 
a statement to that effect, then withdrawing the sum, 
returning it to the owner and retaining the bank statement 
for immigration purposes. 
also, ownership of land is another 
point in your favor. Even a small parcel (a city- type /ot) 
which are available cheaply through tax-land companies can 
help establish your sincerity in becoming a useful, purposive 
canadian subject, which is what the immigration dept. wants. 
——Tracy 
ON BOOKS 
| don't agree with your comparison bet. Book of Survival and 
The Survival Book. The later is truly romantic and limited for 
an American going into anywhere but still very good info, very 
exciting world facts and good follow up——but now to the Book 
of Survival. 
This also has good info but its chopped up style 
makes for very hard reading and low remembering. What happened 
to Bradford Angier’s How to Survive in the Woods——a very good 
general primer——well written and very popular——did you have 
it and drop it? Also by . agier Free for the Eating and More Free 
for the Eating——very good reading books on edible parts of trees, 
flowers, plants, lichens with simple and gourmet recipes——easy to 
read, Example is Rock Tripe in More Free——fantastic nutritious 
food found in U.S. mountains and the North. 
| would even improve 
on his description but a vital food——could live on it for time——on 
it alone. We have found it in N. Y. S. adirondack Mts. and in 
Rocky Mts near Boulder. Am sure it’s in Sierra???Angier also 
wrote——with a doctor——book called How to Become Your Own 
Wilderness Doctor——good illustrations——good first aid book—— 
not comprehensive like Medicine for Mountaineering (you have 
the booklet version in cat. why not also full book). Main point 
about Angier is that his books are very readable and let you 
absorb more real info. 
That's all for now—— 
Please, if possible, give our love to Jay Baldwin and tell him we'll 
see him some day again we hope. 
Stellios and Jessica 
Boulder, Colo. 
