Creative Casting 
CREATIVE CASTING, by Sharr Choate. $6.95 from 
Crown Publishers, Inc. 419 Park Avenue South, New 
York, N. Y. 10016 
. 
This book provides a detailed, coherent description of the tools and 
' processes involved in casting jewelry, holloware (silverware), and 
sculpture. 
It covers casting techniques for lost wax, replica, hollow- 
core, sand, cuttlefish bone, and rubber mold methods. 
|t explains 
exactly how the materials are treated and why, and liberally illustrates 
each step with diagrams (over 400) and color plates (13——and they 
are beautiful). 
The first part of the book covers designing the model, preparation 
for casting, and casting. The second part deals with the finishing, 
soldering, treatment and surface decoration, gemstone mounting and 
findings, electroplating and enameling. Creative Casting is compre- 
hensive: 
it includes all the technical information available from 
research by dentists, industrial casting engineers, and professional 
jewelry craftsmen. Yet it is not difficult to understand. The instruc- 
tions are precise and many, but carefully layed out. The center 
section of photographs of jewelry, silverware, and sculpture 
suggests a lot of interesting possibilities to work in metal, once 
you've got the technicalities well in hand. This is a book to under- 
line, dog-ear, and store along with all of your best metalworking 
tools. 
Susan Williston 
Portland, Oregon 
Gladney Oakley Suggests 
You'll stop singing the Nothing-can-be-done Because-the-technology- 
is-secret-blues when you get ahold of this book. 
Chemical Process Industries, by Norris Shreve. McGraw Hill; 
- 
2956, 886 pp. 
Outlines of hundreds of industrial process.are detailed here. Tan 
leather, make glass, cement, alcohol, soap, paint, glues. One hang: 
these processes are all described on the full industrial scale, you will 
have to scale them down to suit your own enterprise. 
What this book doesn‘t show is the waste products from each process. 
It would be a service for some industrial chemist to team with an 
ecologist and add to every process listed the amounts and types of 
waste products produced, and to catalogue the current methods of 
disposing of these, for it is these processes which yield not only 
beer and tanned leather and pretty glass beads but the pollutants 
which we live in. 
What we all need is a book in which a sensible, organic, good-cycling- 
way of disposing of each and every waste product we produce from 
whatever process is described. 
There are three schools of compost making, the common USA-UK 
variety exemplified in this country by the authors writing for the 
magazine Organic Farming and collected in the encyclopedic work 
by the editor of that magazine, entitled The Complete Book of 
Composting. 
A second school is the Mystical-Germanic-semi-religious efforts of 
the followers of Rudolf Steiner, whose disciple E. E. Pfeiffer has 
written numerous works on Bio-Dynamic Gardening, The Art and 
Science of Composting is one of Pfeiffers works. 
i 
4 
The third school of compost making is the Systems—Whole Earth— 
| 
UN-Technological school, exemplified by COMPOSTING, Sanitary 
ie 
Disposal and Reclamation of Organic Wastes, by Harold B Gotaas. 
{ 
A few comments on each of the three: 
1) Common: _ It is unnecessary to buy Rodales book The Complete 
Book of Composting, as sufficient information is 
f 
contained in the superb work by Rodale How to 
! 
Grow Vegetables and Fruits by the Organic Method 
But there is additional information in the Complete 
Book which may interest a few people with spare $$. 
Hf 
These techniques have to be seen to be believed. Ons: 
the surface they involve adding to compost heaps 
extracts and solutions prepared in very diluted form 
from various weeds and plants. 
But the reasoning behind this is very very deep and 
mystical and quite beyond me. 
It may appeal to 
anyone digging astrology. 
2) Bio-Dynamic: 
3) Systems: 
—— Written by a professor of Sanitary Engineering at 
: 
Berkeley, this work contains 9 chapters, the last 
| 
> 
one justifying purchase of the entire book: 
* 
Chapter 9. Manure and night-soil digesters for 
) 
A 
; 
methane recovery on farms and 
| 
in villages. 
, 
Had you heard rumors that you could get your 
| 
compost heap to produce methane from which you 
i a 
could have light, electricity, power? This chapter 
i 
' 
nails down the techniques and the references at 
| 
the end cover the field. 
Companion Plants and how to use them, by Helen Philbrick and 
Richard B. Gregg. Copyright 1966 by the Devon-Adair 
Co., 23 
East 26th St., NY NY USA. My edition, published in england by 
Stuart and Watkins Ltd, 45 Lower Belgrave St., London SW 1, UK 
The American Indians planted corn and beans in the same spot, 
knowing that for some reason both plants would benefit. 
i 
Farmers repeatedly rediscover the fact that soybeans and corn 
| 
grown together increase each others growth and yield. 
| 
. 
_ This smal! book (84 pages) by two bio-dynamicists lists a large 
q 
number of known plant associations, both beneficial and harmful. 
We 
“Peas and radishes are mutually helpful. Radish and hyssop 
dislike each other. Keep raspberries away from potatoes.’’ 
Pyrotechnics by George W. Weingart, Chemical Publishing Co., Inc, 
Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Ever wanted to make fireworks, bombs, aerial mines, light, smoke, 
| 
fire, noise? Details are here. This is probably the best text in 
| 
English (which must be said as best texts in world are probably in 
Japanese, to judge by their displays). 
1 
Gladney Oakley 
i 
_ 
Australia 
1 
. Gladney paiey. is the sort of name there should be a song 
_ written around. 
} 
Rip Rap Sacker 
While looking through your latest catalogue | came across 
an ad for building walls out of concrete rip rap. | was 
: surprised to say the least, in that | have a machine that 
sacks rip rap. My machine, which was made in 1953, has 
been used primarily for flood control but could be easily 
used in the same way as the Dicker Stack International. My 
machine has a tremendous output as compared to other 
commonly used methods of placing rip rap. Usually other 
methods are completely manual and require super laborers 
‘to put the 150 Ib. bags in place. My machine goes right to 
the work and puts out the bags almost in place. | took over 
this business May of 1969 from the builder of the machine 
Mr. Al Figueroa of Redding, California. Mr. Figueroa had 
been working with rip rap since the early 20’s and this machinets 
was the final product of years of experimenting and refining 
of other methods. He had this machine patented (| now have 
the rights) in 1953 and worked it exclusively in Shasta and 
Humboldt counties. Now | have tried to expand it into other 
areas and possibly in other ways. 
| am out of work until spring but would like very much to 
find people that would be interested in using the machine for 
new purposes. 
| have low winter rates and anything that is 
interesting possibly lower. 
My usual rates start at $2.70 a cubic yard (10¢ per sack) with 
the renter providing the concrete and the crane (back hoe or 
forklift) plus men to work with the machine. 
(I go along 
with it to fill it and keep it clean) 
| would have to talk about 
the type of job before any definite price could be quoted. 
Thank you, 
Richard Karch 
Karch Rip Rap Service 
387 Sanford Road 
Santa Rosa, CA 95401 
John Holt Suggests 
Don’t know whether the Catalogue is much into the Hi- 
Fidelity sound business. Hi-Fidelity is an imprecise term. 
It is a spectrum, But the smallest and least expensive speaker 
that seems to me to be entitled to call itself hi-fidelity is the 
new Dynaco. 
It is really quite extraordinary. 
| made A-B 
: 
tests of it against a KLH—6, a very fine speaker, and though 
in some respects the 6 was better, deeper bass, somewhat 
more fullness——in other respects, | felt the Dynaco was 
quite definitely superior. 
In really dense textured material, 
large orchestral and choral passages, the sound is somewhat 
better defined. Anyway, it is a fine piece of work——list price 
$80, discounts for less than that at some places in the east. 
Some of the best European tape recorders can be bought 
much more cheaply from a London firm called C. C. 
Goodwin, Ltd., 7, The Broadway, Wood Green, London 
N22, England. The new Tandberg 1600X tape deck which 
sells here for $250, they sell for $172. To that you would 
have to ad cost of shipping and some duty, but the total 
would not be as high as $200, which is a useful saving. 
Feeling rich these days. Bought a couple of Rectilinear 
X speakers. Tastes differ in these matters, but | haven’t 
heard anything | like better at any price. 
A portable tape recorder is a very good gadget for school. 
CONSUMER REPORTS recently recommended one from 
: Sears. | bought one and have tried it out and it seems to 
work very well. Good sound quality. 
An English audio outfit called Sinclair makes a little 
stereo amplifier called the Neoteric 60 Mark MK II. An 
outfit called Audio T, 16 RR, Dryden Chambers, 119 
Oxford St., London W1, England, sells it for 46 pounds, 
* which with shipping and duty it all comes to about 
$125.00. | took it to one of our best local hi-fi places, 
and they were ecstatic about it. Not only is there nothing 
of comperable power and quality at that price in this 
country, but the little gadget is so tiny you can hardly 
believe it. A really elegant piece of gear. The manufac- 
turers say it has 20 watts per channel, but this is extremely 
conservative. 
Best, 
John Holt 
Boston, Mass. 
Silk 
Silk yardage from Thai Silk Company, 311/6-7 Surawongse 
Road, Box 906, GPO, Bangkok, Thailand 
| don’t know that the item warrants a review as such. 
It is 
just the most beautiful fabric I’ve ever seen. When you see 
it you know you must wear it. I’ve never seen their incredible 
colors in any other fabric. Comes by the yard, 40” width, 
3 or 4 different weights, solids (which are really made with 
warp & weft of different, sometimes complementary, colors) 
and gingham-type plaid (1 or 2’’ checks.) When | wrote, 
ca. 2 years ago, they would send generous samples for 1 gen- 
uine U.S.A. quarter. 
Charles Eby 
Laurel, Md. 
Fuses and Cannons 
for someone who can’t get fuses localy W.H. Zeller seems 
like a good source. The fuse is good for about anything 
including bombs. He also sells books, cannons and a 
little bit of everything else. He sends a bunch of odds 
and ends and a catalog free of charge 
SAFETY FUSE 
This fuse is of the highest quality obtainable, with a burning rate of 
approximately 30 seconds per foot. 
It is 3/32 of an inch in diameter 
and is double coated with a special red lacquer. 
It will burn under 
water and under ground. However it should not be subjected to 
prolonged exposure to water or moisture. 
William H. Zeller 
1416 Keil Hwy. 
Hudson, Mich. 49247 
Peace, 
Chris Christian 
Virginia Beach, 
VA 
Bill Lange Suggests 
| wrote a letter last week and forgot the most important 
part. ‘’Vise Grip Jr.” made by Peterson Mfg. Co. Inc., 
DeWitt, Nebraska. 
It is a very fine off center locking 
. 
pliers. My sister uses one in the kitchen. 
Its 5’’ long and 
just fits the hand. 
It has a wire cutter that will make short 
work of coat hangers. 
It will crack nuts like crazy. 
It 
solves problems. And it is first rate goods you can wear one 
= out! suppose | haven‘t managed to yet. Cost $2.50 or 
thereabouts. 
| bought 16 of them as | don’t wish to do 
without, and | didn’t figure they would send just a couple. 
| gave a few away, but very carefully. 
| enclose the little 
blurb you get with a new one. They are really the world’s 
best. From Nebraska?? 
With a set of 3/8 drive sockets c point, Lady Slipper, (Lady's 
H Foot pry bar) set of combination wrenches, (Box one end, 
open on other) hammers, crescent wrenches, 1/4” drive 
ss sockets, screw drivers, vice grips and a lot of other stuff 
ss you will find you will need you are pretty well set up for 
motorcycle and automobile work. 
| also recommend lock-tite nut lock. 
It’s expensive but it 
works, made by Loc-Tite Corporation, 705 North Mountain 
Road, Newington, Hartford, Connecticut 06111. Or from 
your local parts jobber. They have other products, but 
# | haven't tried them. 
Last letter to you | told you about the ‘amateur yacht 
research society’’ well | forgot a very important feature. 
s A correspondence course in yacht design is offered. 
In 24 lessons of about 2000 hours work, cost is $325 
payable in small instalments with each lesson. For further 
information write Yacht Design Institute, 111 Woodcrest 
Avenue, White Plains, New York 10604. 
= The sea is the last “free range”’ it’s your last chance to “be 
* a cowboy” 
Love, 
Bill Lange 
Sweden 
Fred says— 
Buy “’Vise-Grip” brand. None of the other similar locking 
plier wrenches are as good. The other sizes of Vise-Grips 
are just as good as the Jr. 
“Nise-Grip” is like ““Channellock”. Brand name, not a 
generic term. Both better than others. 
Audel’s Handy Book of Practical Electricity is obsolete 
to the point of uselessness. 
| 
1 
\ 
