te 
a 
i. 
Letter from New Mexico 
Dear Friends, 
As the time to till the soil comes near, | think back over our 
time in New Mexico. Not yet a year but enough time to 
learn much about this beautiful land that we dreamed of 
so long. There is much we have learned——not in a mind 
blow out but rather in the joy and perfection of creative 
living. There is a great magnificence to New Mexico, the 
spacial fields the surrounding mountains and mesas, and 
the cultural individuality of the people: To live in this grand 
setting utilizing the raw materials, being close with local 
people and make a life time home. 
Your past doesn’t matter when you come but your skills do. 
How long you went to school is unimportant when drinking 
wine with the Indians and Mexicans or when carrying water 
from a couple of miles away because the stream froze and 
the water went underground. The tools you brought are 
probably the second most important thing. That and your 
ability to utilize whatever is around. 
When my husband and | left the east, we had each made 
many scenes been many places but the peace that we were 
seeking always came in a natural-‘setting. New Mexico told 
me that there was great wisdom to be found here. | felt this 
when | was last here six years ago. So we saved, without 
selling our souls, to get a vehicle to get us across country. 
We wanted to make my five year old daughter feel comfor- 
table. So my husband built a house on the back of an old 
flatbed. This tin roof chicken house was able to house four 
people, two dogs and a cat. Seems impossible but he took 
out the back window and made a hole to the house so the 
animals and small people could move around comfortably 
without stopning. A fifteen year old boy from the school 
we taught at came with us, 
Like most of our people we didn’t have much money, so 
we wanted to take the essentials-—warm clothes, tools, 
plenty of blankets, cooking utensils and some craft materials. 
We had lived in a tipi for a year and | forgot how small it 
closed up to. Three ft wide by 2 ft high lining and floor 
covering included. Our tipi was an eighteen footer. We 
didn’t take the poles because wood would be accessible. 
A supply of food was necessary so we never would have to 
lean on friends. There are so many foods that will keep 
and a larder of grains, dried fruits and such could keep us 
going for a while. 
Our route depended on where our friends lived. Stops along 
the way were necessary because of the physical defects of the 
truck. The truck became known as Blood Sweat and Tears 
and that is what it needed to keep it going and of course lots 
of oil. Actually the truck was a joke but with perseverance 
and cursing we somehow made it to New Mexico. 
From my time on the peyote road | had friends in Santa Fe. 
We also knew people who ran a Summerhill school, the 
Santa Fe Community School. Most of the good people had 
headed for the hills. It was summer and the height of the 
hippy season. The people we talked to were so uptight 
about anyone new. Later | understood their situation but 
then information was all | was seeking. Nota place to crash 
or a meal just where certain communes and people were. 
The only information | got was where to stay. Hyde Park 
was a perfect place. $1.00.a day wasn’t much then. The 
only difficulty was going down the mountain with little or 
no brakes. We were looking for a commune some where 
near Colorado named Libra that’s only requirements were 
that you would support yourself, not build in the sight of 
anyone else, and you were together enough not to bring 
your problem to others. The scanty information we got was 
that it was near Chama. Of course all we need do was ask 
around. That didn’t seem like much to go on but | didn’t 
want to stay in Santa Fe any longer. It seemed like the 
place to come in the dead of winter with some hand made 
goods to sell. The only warmth we felt was from the shop- 
keeper at the Old Santa Fe Trail. 
So up the trail we continued. Of course we never found 
Libra. But we saw another part of New Mexico. | was 
ready to settle among the Mexicans and sell leather goods 
and pottery to wealthy Texans that came hunting in 
northern New Mexico. 
We descided to try the Taos area and see some friends at 
the Hog Farm before we settled. | was amazed at the help 
we got. Taos too was flooded with wandering people 
searching. Lorien Enterprizes had set up an information 
center where you could find out about communes, can 
food and a lot of other helpful things. Some how we 
landed at a commune called Five Star. | liked the feeling 
of the people camping around. We didn’t want to get 
too involved so we stayed on the side lines helping in 
the garden. The garden these people planted was plentiful. 
They did a great job and could have easily lived on what 
they produced. Even get off food stamps but there were 
so many people tripping by. | cooked at the big house 
a couple of times and there were between sixty and eighty 
people. 
. 
It was a favorite spot for Mexicans, Indians, Hippies and 
straights because of the Ponce de Leon Hot Springs. 
It 
was easy to just sit in the hot springs drinking with the 
people gawking at the naked chicks. But that wasn’t 
what we were looking for. There were a few kids around 
that my daughter could play with. Most of the trippers 
were young and free and not too interested in working. 
in the garden but interested in eating. At Five Star about 
eight or nine people did most of the work. 
As summer drew to an end we descided to put the tipi up 
the canyon. A friend had checked with a realtor to see if 
there was land available to live on free. My husband was 
into building a rabbit hutch for some'4H rabbits that were 
laid on us. | was preparing for winter by helping canning, 
picking, pickling and drying foods with the Five Star 
Commune. A pressure cooker was essential for at this 
altitude vegetables had to cook for eight hours. Getting 
water and cutting wood was an everyday job but it was 
doubled when canning. That’s when the Information 
Center came in handy again. 
We had picked peaches‘off the ground at an orchard. Many 
commercial orchards will let you pick fruit off the ground. 
That and the wild plums, cherries and with the food Five 
Star had grown, canning was. 
full time project. The 
Information Center had several stoves and info about 
canning. They had a large kitchen. When | was there | 
found out about the other activities of Lorien Enterprizes. 
They put out a’paper called The Fountain of Light. Helped 
run a garage called M and M where you could work on your 
car free using their tools. Ran the General Store where you 
could buy and sell at reasonable prices. Most important they 
backed the Free Clinic that later saved many lives. 
Next year they were planning to open a school. That is when 
| descided to apply for a New Mexican teaching certificate. 
No matter where we were | would probably be teaching my 
daughter and other kids. | talked to a hippy social worker that 
dealt with the communes. He said a school of any kind was 
desperately needed. The schools had enough trouble assimi- 
lating the Mexicans and Indians and they didn’t want the 
problem of long hairs. They were keeping the long haired 
boy we brought with us out of school. So we talked about 
setting up a small school at Five Star. | got together with 
interested people and set up a schedule of what people 
wanted and could teach. Then we met with the kids and 
found out what they wanted. The kids came from the 
Taos area. There were only ten to begin with. 
Before we got started we were hit with a plague of amoebic 
dysentery. 
It was the fly season and the mosquito season 
had just ended. A couple thousand people had tripped 
through the hot springs and the pool had never been cleaned. 
So my husband and a friend that lived with us started hauling 
water from town. Water was even more precious. The hot 
springs had amoebic dysentery in the algae in the pool. 
Many people were coming down with dysentery. The 
Free Clinic was filled. | was pregnant and they insisted 
| go into the hospital because | too got the bug. The kids 
and the teachers of this new found school all came down 
with dysentery. 
Going to the hospital was foolish—-—they did nothing more 
than | did at our tipi. My husband had just built a cook shack 
out of totally scrap lumber. Now sanitation had to be thought 
of more. So an out house was begun. It was Sept. and we 
were getting ready for the first snows. There was always 
some question about whose land we were on. Land in New 
Mexico has been divided up from Spanish land grants and 
passed down to each son in long narrow strips. Of course 
to listen to our-Indian friend, they say that all the land 
‘around Taos belongs to the Pueblo Indians. But if you 
talk to a Jicaria Apache they say that land is theirs for 
they hunted and camped in the area. 
The largest family who owned land near our tipi sight 
was the 
family. One day an Uncle of the clan 
from California, a cousin from up north and one of our 
neighbor friends happened by our tipi checking cattle. 
They wanted to know what our plans were. How we made 
our money and what we were going to contribute to the 
economy. When we spoke of being craftsmen they said 
they had their own craftsmen who needed to make a living 
off the tourists. The conversation left a stale air in the 
tipi.» Somehow | knew we weren't settled yet. Even though 
we rarely went into Taos, | felt we were too close for com- 
fort. So we started asking about land further away. 
| won't go into the sad story of the break up.of a community. 
Somehow we were visited everynight by several people of the 
commune. The final push was when a group of well dressed 
Chicanos came and told us this was their land. We'd better 
get off or they would bring the sheriff. Our friend checked 
with the realtor and they said they could stay. But we did 
not want to. 
We had heard about some land about a hundred miles away. 
It had been bought by a New York doctor and turned over 
to God. Our truck had broken down a long time ago and 
been traded for another broken down small car. So our 
next project was to get a truck to move us. 
It was the full moon that speeded us up but still it took 
us four days to find an ex-Hells Angel with a classic 1937 
flatbed. While some of us looked for our Angel others 
went to visit God’s land. They came back with beautiful 
stories of running fresh streams, oak groves, ponderosa 
pine forest and mica speckled rocks. What a picture we 
made when we started off with all our possessions. Our 
family had changed and grown to five——a lot of rabbits 
and dogs. This time we took the tipi poles. 
It was great leaving the sage and sand behind. Going over 
large mountains which opened up to lush valleys with cattle 
and cowboys along the road. Our destination was in a valley 
surrounded by mountains. There were five people already 
here. They had been living off the apple and plum orchard 
and ate heartily when we arrived. 
We still didn’t want to be part of a community but being 
organized makes you a nucleus for people to come around. 
We set up our tipi by the stream and further away dug an 
out house. We agreed not to ruin the land in any way. Not 
to cut any living trees. Not to build in the sight of one 
another and try to keep cars off the land. There of course 
could be no rules for people who didn’t believe in rules. 
Since new people would always be coming everything was 
subject to change. 
First the local people were very interested in this new 
population. For a town of about 100 that are all related, 
we were an entertainment. Cars came up at all hours, sober, 
drunk, before church and after church. Actually the people, 
whatever condition, were very nice and conserned about 
how we were going to make it. When they found out that 
| 
we were not different from them, the traffic slowed down 
| 
and we made friends with many families. We learned much 
from our neighbors. 
The first snow was a shocking reality to many. 
It weeded 
out many crashers so we could move around a little easier. 
People that didn’t even have a warm coat or a good pair of 
shoes hit the road for Taos.. We realized that our supply of 
wood was scanty and we had best get to work. We were 
cooking out doors, as | usually did when we lived in the tipi. 
It was neater and there were now seven people sleeping in 
the tipi. One of the local families came with their twelve 
kids the first snow bringing beans and biscuits. They told 
us this was an early snow and were worried if we were warm 
enough. Thanks to all the blankets we were comfortable. 
The men started to increase our wood pile and | got squaw 
wood. We had two axes but a well meaning tripper who didn’t 
know what he was doing broke our ax handle. 
It would have 
been good if we had another hickory handle for there were 
no cars on the land. A friend of my husband’s had learned 
the skill of making ax handles. He found a piece of oak and 
finished the job with a draw knife, a wood rasp and a D-saw. 
The two shovels we brought were essential because the guys 
started to dig a house below ground. They had dug six feet 
in some places. Then they were told that the water level 
rizes ten feet and we would be flooded come spring. So 
that project was abandoned. 
A well meaning person in the town told them they could cut 
timber or use tree tops that couldn’t be used for logging. 
So a week was spent in dragging down logging tops, cutting 
the small branches off and cutting them to the correct size 
for our log cabin. We then found out that even though many 
son, daughters, aunts, uncles, cousins and nephews own one 
piece of land——it is the oldest member of the family that 
has to give permission before anything can be taken off said 
land. So logs had to be found some where else. 
In between all the projects of trying to build, we still needed 
- 
to eat. Up until then we had not used food stamps. Somehow 
one of the chicks went down and gave everyone names for 
food stamps. Our winter supply had been depleted by the 
amount of people we were feeding. All time was needed 
for trying to build so food stamps were welcome.- But we 
hoped we would be off them come planting season. 
Every time new people came to the land it showed. So 
luckily only the prepared could stay. The tipi was comfor- 
table if we had enough smokeless wood——dry cedar in 
combination with split dry oak and plenty of kindling. The 
next cozy temporary shelter were army wall tents. 
The guys heard of a national forest where one could get logs 
that were down but couldn’t cut green trees. The fiasco of 
getting 42 logs was unbelievable. The first part only took 
three days. After the second part of the trip, the local bar 
owner told us that we could take log tops that he had paid 
for and did not need. The cabin materials were coming to- 
gether. The guys had gotten eleven vigas from helping tear 
down an old garage. Also most important were three sets 
of eight paned windows. 
When pulling 
all the materials together they totaled to 16 
logs—18 feet long and 20 logs—11 feet long. We bought 
three truck loads of half rounds at $4.00 a truck load. The 
first project in putting this large Lincoln log set together was 
to debark the logs with an ax. The dimensions of the cabin 
were 21 ft. long by’ 10 ft. wide. The vegas were to be used 
for the back wall with a stone fireplace as the center. The 
18 footers were cut in half for the front leaving 3 ft. for the 
door. The notches were made with an ax for the lower logs 
and a chisel for the upper logs. After all the logs were laid, 
the four main roof vigas were placed. The roof was put on 
with tar paper and half rounds for latias. Half rounds were 
used for the final layers of roofing. The sloping sides were 
also finished with half rounds. 
(continued on page 49) 
