p.5 
The Subversive Science: 
On The Subversive Science, \'d say it’s a dandy book for 
_ dipping into on the john or elsewhere. Each little piece is 
very thought-provoking. 
I’ve only read a few myself, but 
the first one on evolution of man is really nifty. Anyhow, 
from what I've seen, it’s a bit too scattered to be a useful 
reference source. 
Larry McCombs 
Oakland, CA 
p.d2 
About your listing for Clyde Robin’s Seeds——you 
oughten’t. One suspects that he’s had them in his glove 
compartment since 1953. They have a very low germin- 
ation rate. This iscommon experience among those of 
us who order those groovy things with the highest of hopes. 
Your friendly county agricultural agent can tell you where 
to get wildflower seeds to stop erosion or just to roll in. 
S. Siegel 
Fairfax, CA 
Clyde Robin Replies 
Thank you for including an advertise- 
ment for our catalogue in your Whole 
Earth Catalogue. We have received 
many orders for our catalogue through 
this advertisement. We are sure of this 
because you made a minor error in the 
advertisement carried in your catalogue 
in that you quoted it as selling for 25¢. 
Our catalogue sells for 50¢. It costs us 
40¢ to print and 8¢ to mail. In future 
publications would you please correct 
this. 
However, we have mailed catalogues to everyone who had ordered 
one through seeing your advertisement. And not only that, the cata- 
logues which we mail are no longer effective but when our new cata- 
logue is received from the printer shortly, each individual who was 
mailed an older catalogue will be mailed a new catalogue without 
charge. 
Now as to this letter of which you sent me a copy. 
| do not under- 
stand the motive of the writer. The facts are that in 1969 we sold 
in excess of 12 tons of native seeds. More than 99.8 per cent of 
these seeds were collected in the year 1969. All our seeds are logged 
in each week by an agricultural inspector who sees them stored ina 
darkened storage facility which is heavily insulated. and held at low 
temperatures so these seeds will retain all there viability. He has 
constantly complimented us in the fine and efficient manner in which 
we store and ship our seeds. 
The major part of our business is from repeat orders and a goodly 
number of people have been with us since the early 50’s with con- 
stantly increasing orders. We have received hundreds of letters of 
commendation from all parts of the world. To my knowledge this 
is the third letter of this nature we have received. 
{f there is any doubt in your mind regarding our operation, please 
contact us. 
Sincerely, 
Y: 
Clyde Robin 
Castro Valley, CA 
\ We've been told that all wildflower seeds have a low 
~ germination rate. Comments? 
' 
Science & Civilization 
| 
My favorite vol. of Needham (Sci & Civ in China) is Vol \| 
which has the chapter on Taoism (not Vol | as you have it 
‘in the Fall 69 Catalogue) That chapter tells everything from 
how to perform coitus interruptus (haven’t tried it but the 
directions are clear) to the origin of won ton soup (used to 
; Bevis alchemical elixir’ 
Mark Engel 
Ben Lomond, CA 
Dyna Technology: 
Electricity from the wind 
You ask, ‘’Has anyone used one?’’ Probably not with much success. 
| used to be an electrical engineer with a light & power company, 
then with an electric power magazine, until | dropped out. 
I've 
never used one of these gadgets, but have heard something about 
them, and they haven’t made much of.a reputation. Trouble isn't 
in their works, but in the wind, or lack of it. Wind, unlike flowing 
water, is an unreliable power source. 
It's dandy for pumping water 
up out of the earth because no farmer demands a steady stream 
(=amperes in electricity) at constant pressure (=voltage). Most 
of the time, in most places, winds are too weak to supply any but 
small power, and in that case you’re better off with batteries. And 
even when the wind is strong, it’s gusty, and that means uneven 
voltage unless the equipment has an extraordinarily good speed 
regulator. All of which goes a long way toward explaining why 
so few wind-driven electric generators are on the market——despite 
many an engineer’s dream of such free electricity. 
People in places so isolated that they can’t get electricity from some 
Power company or co-op are better off with generators driven by 
some kind of smog-making machine. Some handy man with a used- 
up VW whose engine still works might try puttering together a VW- 
driven generator. 
Electricity, by the way, even PG&E’s, is really pretty cheap stuff. 
Compare it, frinstance, against the cost of fueling yourself at say 
2000 Calories per diem, at $1 a day for food. That’s about 2% 
kilowatt-hours of energy, for which an electric utility charges 
around 6¢. ... 
P. X (no telling where, ‘cause | can’t seem to relocate it in your 
index-less catalog; you really ought to add an alphabetic index): 
Comment on Teilhard de Chardin’s “‘Phenomenon of Man” says 
something about his having written it in 1938 and ‘‘wasn‘t anyone 
listening?”” Hardly, for this book (like all Teilhard’s others) wasn’t 
published until after he died in 1955. As mentioned in this book's 
introduction. 
W. L. (Lank) Felsen 
Stinson Beach, CA 
p. 54 
Macramé 
The macramé review in fall catalog is not what macramé 
deserves, i think. Instead of a book report, i’d like to turn 
people on——everyone i’ve ever taught macramé to has been 
so excited by it-—both men and women——young crafts- 
out-of-sight. 
the tedium of learning a few basic knots’. That's really 
a bummer. 
Love, 
Connie Feldsher 
Feather Falls, CA 
) — a 
cA 
EXER 
IEE 
RP) 
MIdIIISIDdadddddnG 
Virginia |. Harvey, author of Macramé, announces the new 
quarterly publication, Threads in Action, a technical publi- 
cation on non-loom techniques. Macramé will be the 
others. 
Subscriptions are $8.50 /year 
from: 
Threads in Action 
Box 468 
Freeland, Washington 98249 
Individual copies are $2.50, or $3.25 with yellow vinyl cover. 
[Suggested by Helen Bitan] 
people & old people too. and: its possibilities are so unlimited 
Your review actually makes me angry——out of all the people 
‘ve taught no one has. ever complained of ‘suffering through 
thoughtless bullshit-—making the sampler is really enjoyable 
and as exciting as all learning. i’m sorry you ever printed such 
principal subject with occasional articles on stitchery, bobbin 
lace, netting, knotless netting, sprang, knitting, crochet, and 
p.55 
Trouble Looms 
To: 
Northwest Looms 
Box 241 Coburg, Oregon 97401 
Copies to: 
Craft & Hobby Book Service 
Box 626 Pacific Grove, Cal. 93950 
Whole Earth Catalog 
Portola Institute 
558 Santa Cruze, Menlo Park, Cal. 94025 
Dear Sirs, 
Over the last year or so my wife and | have developed an interest 
in weaving. We have been making our living by picking fruit and 
selling home made inkle looms and our inkle woven belts, head 
bands, and hand bags. 
After hearing about looms from other weavers we met in our travels, 
and reading your write-up in the Whole Earth Catalog, we decided to 
save Our money to purchase one. We thought we could increase the 
variety of woven goods we have for sale and weave cloth for our own 
clothing. We decided that the widest loom, with the greatest possi- 
bility for variation of pattern, would be the best investment. 
This 
was the 20", 8 harness ‘Craftsman’, then advertised in the current 
Whole Earth Catalog for $169.50. 
It was stated in the write-up that 
““no-extra equipment is needed’. 
In making our decision to purchase 
the loom we assumed that $169.50 was all we needed to provide — 
us with a machine that could weave wide lengths of cloth quickly 
enough to help provide for our living. 
As soon as we had the money, | sent a check for $169.50 with my 
order so we could get the loom as soon as possible. 
| mailed the 
check and order to Craft & Hobby Book Service on 11/28/69. Soon 
after that | received a note from them saying that they had referred 
the order to you at Northwest Looms. We then anxiously awaited 
the arrival of our loom, or some communication from you for nearly 
7 weeks. 
On 1/14/70 we received your ‘‘message’’ and accompanying infor- 
mation. We learned that— 
. The loom was not yet made. 
. The price had risen to $183.50. 
. 
| might be interested in some of the ‘‘available accessories” 
(at extra cost). 
4. “‘Looms and Accessories” were ‘‘shipped best way collect.” 
WN 
We also learned, but found it difficult to believe that you “try to 
ship within three weeks of receipt of order.”’ and that ‘‘Payment in 
full with order speeds delivery.’’. 
We allowed ourselves a cooling off period before deciding what to do. 
After thinking, discussing, and waiting for 2 weeks, we have decided 
to ask that you send us our money back. 
Karl D. Smiley 
Hermosa Beach, Cal. 
Math 
Some comments about your mathematics section—— 
| have no quarrel with Mathematical Snapshots, Mathematical 
Models, 
or the work of M. C. Escher, but | question the value, 
or at least the appropriateness, of your other two listings. 
Newman’s book is not a tool——except for high school students 
writing papers about Gauss, Archimedes, etc., and the teenyboppers 
don’t need the Catalog to tell them how to use their school libraries. 
There are some good thingsin it: 
Hardy’s Apology, the story by 
Aldous Huxley, the paper about being the right size, and some 
others. 
| bought it in high school and spent a lot of time with it. 
But now, seven years later, | have a degree in mathematics, and | 
think it (the book, not the degree) did more harm than good. 
Reading about mathematics is just like reading about music, 
without listening, playing, or composing. 
It’s a waste of time, to 
say the least, and no one should be encouraged to do it. 
The Russian survey isn’t a tool either. The main problem with it, 
aside from its uneven quality, is this: 
either the reader knows 
calculus and linear algebra, or he doesn’t. 
If he doesn’t, then 
(a) this is not (absolutely not!) the place to learn, and (b) most 
_of the book——differential equations, functional analysis, topology, 
ete.——will be unintelligible to him. (One exception would be the 
section on abstract algebra, which, | have to admit, is beautifully 
done and accessible to anyone.) On the other hand, if he does know 
calculus and linear algebra, there are so many better books on the 
advanced subjects that it would be silly to spend ten dollars for this 
survey. 
(Of course if these books are selling, then my complaints are beside 
the point; but | suspect that they aren't among your faster-moving 
items. Right?) A/ght. 
Lyle Burkhead 
ate 
Los Altos, CA 
