THE WORLD GAME 
throughout the world, we foresaw the possibility that no 
one would be staying at any one place long enough to 
warrant the construction of ‘permanent’ shelters. Asa 
total service facility, the housing needs would encompass 
not only shelter but communications——with its own 
resultant education, medical information and attention, 
personal telephone contact with anyone, anywhere, and 
mobility with anyone going anywhere. These would be 
accomplished via closed-circuit television and telephone 
to a world central medical, educational, and travel-routing 
computer system. 
Some future directions and scenarios we touched upon were 
the possibilities of a world guaranteed annual income; the 
potential of fluidics as a source of energy; information and 
automation; the use of heat pollution from thermal electric 
plants to heat soil to improve crop output; the efficiency- 
gain by using gasoline or alcohol to run electric power plants 
and electricity to run cars; the production of alcohol from 
algae, farm wastes, or garbage and its substitution for gasoline 
in present-day combustion engines; the laser beam trans- 
mission of power and information; the amount of reinvestable 
time that will be available to mankind as a result of freeing 
him from the drudgery of having to earn a living (by bring- 
ing man to the bare maximum food and energy levels by the 
year 2000 we will have 16 trillion more hours per year to 
reinvest into metaphysical regenerative functions); the in- 
crease of efficiency rates for power production and con- 
sumption, communication, transportation, etc., and the 
possible surplus and increase 
of efficiency through the 
stabilization of the population: 
PART THREE 
(A postscript by Gene Youngblood) 
A World Game strategy conference was held at the World 
Resources Inventory in Carbondale on Wednesday, March 18. 
Plans were discussed for national and international develop- 
ment of World Game during the next four months. 
Fol- 
lowing is a brief summary of the conference: 
Until the present time the World Resources Inventory has 
* been supported by Southern Illinois University, contribu- 
ting 75 per cent of the costs, and by Mr. Fuller personally 
contributing 25 per cent._In 1967 the Illinois State Legis- 
- 
lature authorized a grant of $4 million to World Game, 
providing that an additional $12 million was obtained 
from other sources first. 
It now appears that the total $12 million goal soon will 
be achieved. 
In April of this year federal legislation 
The Environmental Handbook 
The Environmental Handbook prepared for the first National 
Environmental Teach-In, edited by Garrett De Bell and pub- 
lished by Friends of the Earth, Ballantine, is now available in 
bookstores and direct from ZPG. The Handbook was conceived 
in the final days of the November UNESCO Conference in 
San Francisco as a sourcebook of information with suggestions 
for action as well as analyses of the problems. 
It contains 
some of the most important articles published in the past by 
. thors such as Paul Ehrlich, Garrett Hardin, Lynn White, 
enneth E. Boulding, Robert and Leona T. Rienow, and 
David Brower. Original articles were contributed by a num- 
ber of authors including Gene Dubos, Kenneth Cantor, 
Marion Edey of Friends of the Earth, Barbara Parker of 
Berkeley Ecology Center, Michael Perelman of Berkeley 
Ecology Action, Harrison Wellford with the Center for 
Study of Responsive Law in Washington, and Steven 
Wodka of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Inter- 
national Union. One long section of the book is on ‘’Eco- 
Tactics, Suggestions for Personal and Political Action” 
and includes a large number of ideas for change. One of 
the purposes of the handbook is to provide both the back- 
ground knowledge and specific suggestions for people 
asking ‘‘What can | do?” 
Another purpose of the book is to answer questions people 
in the ecology movement get asked every day. This will 
help in giving succinct answers to those who are entirely 
new to the concept of ecology. 
Review from Zero Population Growth’s National Reporter, 
367 State Street, Los Altos, California 94022. 
By conventional bookkeeping methods, for example, the coal companies 
strip-mining away the hillsides of Kentucky and West Virginia show a 
handsome profit. Their ledgers, however, show only a fraction of the 
true cost of their operations. They take no account of destroyed land 
which can never bear another crop; of rivers poisoned by mud and 
seeping acid from the spoil banks; of floods which sweep over farms 
and towns downstream, because the ravaged slopes can no longer 
hold the rainfall. 
John Fischer 
Of the three areas——downtown, the suburbs, and the middle city—— 
it is the middle city which is the only matrix for new culture. Down- 
town does not create new culture; it merely markets it to the suburbs. 
The middie city will be the first to reclaim its environment, the sub- 
urbs second, and downtown last. The downtown environment will 
be reclaimed when the middle city defeats the bid of downtown for 
its territory and when suburbia becomes self-supporting communities. 
a2 
Berkeley People’s Architecture 
(already submitted) is expected to result in a $12 million 
grant to World Game from NASA. 
i 
World Game Director Tom Turner stressed that “‘no 
strings’ were attached to the funding. 
It was made clear 
that in no way will the affiliation with NASA, as a gov- 
ernmental agency, constrain or compromise the apolitical 
integrity and efficiency of World Game. 
Applications for financial support have been submitted 
to more than 200 American foundations, and plans are 
under way to seek foreign support as well. Individual 
contributions of one dollar or more, sent to World Game 
headquarters, are equally welcome. 
Mr. Fuller will address world leaders at a special session 
of the United Nations in New York this April. A graphic 
presentation of World Game processes and scenarios will 
accompany Fuller’s address. 
The newly-formed information office of World Game is 
preparing several projects, including several television 
programs, articles in national magazines, and a regular 
weekly series of articles on World Game syndicated to 85 
college newspapers in the U.S. and Canada. A regular 
World Game newsletter will begin circulation shortly. 
Meanwhile plans for the football field-sized display center 
have been abandoned. Preparations are now under way for 
construction of a $3 million World Resources Simulation 
Center to be located at S.1.U.’s Edwardsville campus. Plans 
call for a 195-foot Tencor clear-span dome to be installed 
by. 1971. This will serve as display center until approximately 
1978, when a 400-foot dome will be added to the smaller 
one, making a total facility of more than $20 million. The 
World Resources Inventory, or ‘‘Information Central,” will 
remain at its present location in Carbondale. Turner empha- 
sized that Carbondale will be an information center only, 
offering logistical support, and will not function as a 
management center. 
The Wolf Computer Corp. of New Concord, Mass. has 
received a contract from S.1.U. to develop a computerized 
visual display system. William Wolf, former student of 
Norbert Wiener at M.1.T., was one-of the first computer 
programmers in the United States and is considered among 
the most prominent. He’s working with a $12 million 
Navy SACE computer, equipped with thirty different 
24-inch CRT display consoles and twenty operator eye- 
boards. The machine also is capable of optical scanning 
for visual display, and light pen interaction with visual 
information. 
ORIGINAL 95¢ 
Ema 14 Ree 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
mall ANDBOOKin 
PREPARED FOR THE FIRST NATIONAL 
ENVIRONMENTAL TEACH-IN 
APRIL 22, 1970 
GDA Baliantine/ Friends of the Earth Book 
09: 
The Environmental 
Handbook 
Garrett De Bell, Ed. 
1970; 365 pp. 
$.95 postpaid 
from: 
Ballantine Books, Inc. 
101 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N. Y. 10003 
x 
1894 
or WHOLE EARTH 
CATALOG 
EDITED BY GARRETT DE BELL 
When writing press releases or dealing with reporters, remember the 
media are always looking for new metaphors and good ideas. Ques- 
tions such as: What is ecology? Why are you involved in it? What 
do you hope to accomplish by holding a teach-in? are going to be 
asked again and again. Be prepared to answer very broad questions 
like these in one or two sentences which are concise and interesting. 
The person doing PR should not only be informed and able to handle 
a variety of rhetoric but should also be interesting or unusual! in his 
own right. Put yourself in the reporter’s shoes: what is it about you, 
your group, and your activities that would make a good story? 
Barbara Parker 
More than three and a half billion people already populate our moribund 
globe, and about half of them are hungry. Some 10 to 20 million will 
starve to death this year. In spite of this, the population of the earth 
will have increased by 70 million in 1969. ... 
It took several million 
years for the population to reach a total of two billion people in 1930, 
while a second two billion will have been added by 1975! 
Paul Ehrlich 
In addition, negotiations are under way to share time 
i 
on the world’s most powerful computer, Illiac 4, which 
will be housed at Champagne, III., by December of 1970. 
= 
Illiac is 500 times as powerful as any existing computer. 
— 
Meanwhile several World Game extension groups have been’ 
established in the U.S. and Canada: ~tInterested schools, 
groups, or individuals are encouraged to contact World ~ 
Game for assistance in establishing an extension project. 
The address is Tom Turner, Director, World Game, 
Southern I|linois University, P.O. Box 909, Carbondale, - 
IHinois 62901. Telephone: 
(618) 457-8064. At some. 
point in the future World Game hopes to be able to 
provide such groups with funds. This capability, however, 
is not yet available. 
i 
A list of five World Game extension study groups and 
their respective activities: 
Max Ackerman (Director) 
McGill University, Montreal 
Home Address: 
3925 Plamondon Ave., Apt. 8 
Montreal, Quebec, 249, Canada 
(Developing World Game as new curriculum for 
higher education.) 
Dr. Val Winsey (Director) 
- 
Assoc. Professor of Anthropology 
‘ 
Pace College, New York, N. Y.. 
(Studies values, beliefs and cultural attitudes 
# 
as they affect success of World Gaming.) 
William Wolf, President 
Wolf Computer Corporation 
New Concord, Massachusetts 
(Developing computer applications of 
World Game.) 
Gene Youngblood or Peter Pearce (Directors) 
California Institute of the Arts 
2404 West 7th Street 
Los Angeles, California 90057 
(Integrating aesthetics of World Gaming concepts.) 
ee Ee
Herman Wolf 
World Game Information Officer 
285 Golden Hill 
| 
Bridgeport, Connecticut 03604 
(Developing television and media information 
~ 
2 
channels.) 
4 
Direct all inquiries to: 
_ 
; :
Tom Turner, Director World Game 
Southern Illinois University 
P.O. Box 909 
. 
Carbondale, IIlinois 62901 
Tel: 
(618) 457-8064 
Parts one and two of this report 
first appeared in the Los Angeles 
Free Press. 25¢/copy. $6/year. 
From: 
L. A. Free Press, 7813 
Beverly Blvd., L.A., CA 90036 
The Environmental Handbook as “the bible” of New Con- 
servation. Paul Ehrlich, the others, as prophets predicting 
the literal end of the world. Ecology Action, the others, as 
young disciples working zealously to save it. The Survival 
Walk from Sacramento to L.A. as a modern version of the 
crusades. The public outcry against pollution as an evan- 
gelical call to cast out evil. San Jose State students actually 
burying a devil alive, in the form of a new Maverick. 
While Lynn White Jr. says: ‘“‘Human ecology is deeply con- 
ditioned by beliefs about our nature and destiny——that is, 
by religion. ... The victory of Christianity over paganism 
was the greatest psychic revolution in the history of our 
culture. ... We continue today to live, as we have lived for 
about 1700 years, very largely in a context of Christian 
axioms. ... 
Christianity, in absolute contrast to ancient 
paganism and Asia’s religions . . 
. not only established a 
dualism of man and nature but also insisted that it is God’s_ 
will that man exploit nature for his proper ends. 
.. 
. 
[Christians] are superior to nature, contemptuous of it, © 
willing to use it for our slightest whim.” 
Conservation asking Christian America to quit being 
Christian America, America saying can’t, I need the money. 
Psychic revolution. Beginnings of religious war. Christ a 
space-age anti-Christ. Battle in the cockpit. Veer left, 
veer right. 66,000 miles an hour. Off course! Quick! 
Be. 
Somebody grab the wheel! 
ue 
fi 
: 5 
| personally doubt that disastrous ecologic backlash can be avoided 
simply by applying to our problems more science and more tech- 
nology. Our science and technology have grown out of Christian 
attitudes toward man’s relation to nature which are almost uni- 
versally held not only by Christians and neo-Christians but also — 
x 
by those who fondly regard themselves as post-Christians. Despite 
Copernicus, all the cosmos rotates around our little globe. Despite 
Darwin, we are not, in our heads, part of the natural process. We 
are superior to nature, contemptuous of it, willing to use it for 
our slightest whim. 
‘ 
Lynn White, Jr. 
Education, particularly higher education, is critically important to 
solving our ecological crisis. 
... The whole direction and purpose 
and thrust of our culture is toward greater production, greater 
exploitation. 
In many if not in most of our universities, there is 
little criticism of the basic assumptions and value judgments that 
underline our current priorities. The university is quite capable of 
developing an automated machine to harvest almost any crop, but 
it is unable to evaluate the long-term social costs of such a development. 
Garrett De Bell 
